Unknown Speaker  0:21  
Okay everyone online I'm just going to set up the proper camera it's not too bad though is it

Unknown Speaker  0:32  
okay

Unknown Speaker  0:35  
not I say Tom let me know when you are in I'll put you on Hi everyone how are you going?

Unknown Speaker  0:58  
Yeah excellent I was pretty bad sorry I

Unknown Speaker  1:13  
had an up the bathroom

Unknown Speaker  2:06  
everybody I make myself

Unknown Speaker  2:13  
oh yeah go for it thank you we Excellent thank you anything else I

Unknown Speaker  2:37  
can do to help whoo

Unknown Speaker  2:39  
hey that's it No I'm fine otherwise never be better thank you jesting Mike

Unknown Speaker  3:53  
oh thank you yeah

Unknown Speaker  4:07  
okay people online can you hear me through the microphone all right it's the Learn escape from something feel safe and you're not paying attention what I'm saying and I can get away with that

Unknown Speaker  4:42  
chocolate we've got more they'll always be more something something worrying about something What was it that's going to be where am I going to be This is Brian from high fives. Yeah. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  5:11  
Y'all can see that on lines, I take it very good. How do I get rid of that,

Unknown Speaker  5:18  
too? Okay,

Unknown Speaker  5:27  
recording is good. I'm probably going to overheat which is bad

Unknown Speaker  5:40  
should somebody decide on a note Very good. Point is on silence even better, put my phone here or go home. And only 10 past. Okay, not bad. Remember everyone remind me, we need a break because it gets to around one o'clock. And I haven't said it's break time. That's my fault. There's nothing that I could possibly be saying. That is as important as us having a break at one o'clock. So just interrupt me. I'll stop whatever I was going to say. We'll still be here five minutes afterwards, remind me also that there's another poor, very polite kind lecturer who waited patiently for 10 minutes up to last week, once we've sat down and taught. He'll probably be less polite this week. Sir. If we have questions, let's all go probably outside that way where there's oxygen as well as space to talk and have it's really it's amazingly echoey up there in the foyer by terrible acoustic design. So when you're speaking out there, like everyone's voice is vibrant. And it just comes straight back into the lecture theater. So we probably shouldn't talk up there on that landing, which is a bit unfortunate, but out there is nice, it will just get nicer as it as it gets warmer. A couple of quick announcements. I have put the essay questions everywhere I can think of and sent them everywhere I can think of if you haven't received them, let me know in the break or something or try harder. They're everywhere. email them to me, I put them on there. And I copy them into the unit of study outline, and I stuck them up as extra reading for for this this week. I don't know what else to do. If you haven't found any of those, then you're not enrolled in something that's terrible. I know I've got a couple of messages about just in the last half hour by getting access to Ed, if you're listening now. I'll I'll fix that as soon as I can. There are a whole bunch of excellent questions, a whole thread about the essay and all sorts of questions. I'm going to be replying to that thread constantly. Every day I might even pin it's like essay questions as they come up. There's no such thing as a bad essay question, something that I'm going to be doing. I'm going to start it next week. I don't quite know what the form will be now, but the rough idea is to have your felt my drop in hours on Thursdays between 12 and two. But I think I'll also have a separate sort of attendant, ongoing rolling, essay writing workshop type thing that we'll start doing next week, and everyone can come along and we'll have my computer as well. That will be at a sort of separate time. I think it'd be nice if it was sort of outside or something but we'll we'll see how it goes and how popular it is. Don't forget that your tutors are there for you with regard to essay advice as well. And if for some of you for whom in this arena for whom will it be the first time you've ever written a long essay? People start being honest not good. You'll be fine. You'll be fine. Trust me is the warm University advice I'll give now we send those been asked like a lot before we get into cars, and rule based ethics. It's simple. The essay questions are questions. Your answer is your essay is supposed to provide an answer to those questions. The body of your essay is made up of reasons that you are giving the reader to believe you that your answers are the correct ones being critical deep Ignatius, nothing is sacred. No one's point of view is more important than your own. So there are no sacred cows here. Okay. Any other any desperate questions about this? That couldn't possibly wait until the very last everyone online? Anything urgent Thomas anyone losing their minds? Again? Good.

Unknown Speaker  9:33  
Okay. All right. Remember where we ended up last week with utilitarianism and consequentialist ethics as a whole. Remember consequentialist a bit of revision. consequentialist ethics is the idea that actions themselves actions themselves are not the primary bearers of moral values rather, it is the consequences of those actions. But what type have consequences matter? Well, that depends really depends on the type of consequentialist that you are. There are as many different versions of consequentialism. As there are philosophers to hold the right that doesn't really matter. If you want to go off into the wide Uncharted reaches of consequentialism agent, you are welcome to do so. However, we're looking at the by far, especially in Australia, the most popular version of consequentialism, which is known as utilitarianism. The idea of utilitarianism is that there's only one primary consequence that we are chasing, namely, happiness is the one primary good, the rest are instrumental. And there's one thing we're trying to avoid, which is suffering or happiness. And when we say, maximizing utility, in the sense of utilitarian, what this means is that we are balancing the net overall utility for everyone the balance of happiness over unhappiness. Now, there are two sorts of utilitarianism, you need to worry about that and you'll choose is that utilitarianism, rule utilitarianism. And there's a lot of confusion about the distinction between rule utilitarianism on the one hand, and the type of ethics we're going to look at today. So I'm going to explain that very carefully when we get there. Here's the motivation with the ethical framework that we'll be looking at to the first half of the lecture today, for the first hour or 45 minutes that we've got that is this idea. The idea is that is that for a lot of us, many of us are absolutely repulsed at the idea of a desk thumping, sort of unrestrained consequentialism. Many of us are opposed to morally moral repulsion, Feels good, feels righteous, right? Moral culture, at the idea that actions themselves do not have any intrinsic moral value. And instead, the moral value is something that attaches primarily to the consequences of those actions. So here's an example of a reaction that a lot of people have had the consequentialism said, listen, slavery is just bloody wrong. It doesn't matter what the consequences are, it doesn't matter how happy it makes you, it doesn't matter how much unhappiness is avoided for the so many people, by the end of the day, the implementation of slavery, it's just wrong. It doesn't matter how you feel. There are moral facts and these moral facts in no way supervene upon your emotions. This this type of perspective is perhaps not It's not terribly empathetic. The idea is that if you, if the majority of people are made really, really happy, the vast majority by slavery, then there's just something wrong with the majority of people. And the last thing we want to do is to make this wrongness this sort of complete sort of emotion, emotional, the emotionally disturbed nature, this many people, why would we want to make that an antecedent condition on a moral theory? This is just absolutely not on, according to this sort, the sort of intuition that a lot of people share another example, child sacrifice, well, it's just bloody wrong. And I'd you know, and I don't care how long your culture has been doing it, or how important it is to you, or how meaningful it is to your understanding of your personhood in your land and your country and where you're from and all of this stuff, like a child murdering lunatic to stop it, it doesn't matter how it makes you feel the good in no way supervenes on how we feel. Because Can you imagine it if things have been otherwise, and

Unknown Speaker  14:11  
everyone, the vast majority of people had always been happy if you know, every third born son who is left handed or something gets slowly skinned alive over weeks at the age of 13, or something, and everyone's like, Oh, my God, it's like torture. That is how we do it here. You know, this is not a terribly silent stance, a very important cultural practice. But to call this terrible, and you need to fix this bit where you're skinning 13 year old boys alive over weeks at a time. It's just not on. Doesn't matter what the consequences are. The action itself is just wrong. Right? No matter what. Good. Now, the idea of slavery and skinning young children alive, you're supposed to think that they're the wrong things to do. They're supposed To be uncontroversial examples of wrong things to do,

Unknown Speaker  15:05  
okay? Now, of course,

Unknown Speaker  15:10  
it doesn't need repeating, but I'll do it anyway, that this type of attitude, has not always had the best track record the last pieces. Whenever one group of people who've never met another group of people meet this other group of people say, What are you doing over here? Oh, no, that's morally wrong. Yes, you often very often ended up with a lot more, many more actions that we might consider to be morally wrong from the criminal consequences alone than they might have been otherwise. And this is the response of the utilitarian or consequentialist in general, to these people who are convinced that some things are just wrong, no matter what say, Stop, look, have a look around. That's the consequences that we should worry about. But there's a real there's a real loggerheads here, these two with these two ways of thinking. He thinks that some things just absolutely are wrong, no matter what the consequences are, because they strap you is just so hard, that if everyone was made happy about it, that would just mean that everyone was kind of messed up in the head, rather than they were the right thing to do.

Unknown Speaker  16:21  
Excellent.

Unknown Speaker  16:22  
Who thinks that's not the case? And that the consequentialist does have it right?

Unknown Speaker  16:27  
We shouldn't be this morally egotistical.

Unknown Speaker  16:34  
Excellent. When you get to your tutorials, file, right by the button by the shoulder. The tutorial is no fun unless there's blood on the floor, right, symbolically speaking, symbolically speaking. Okay. So Immanuel Kant was one of these very people who thinks that some things are just absolutely morally prohibited, no matter what the consequence, but he doesn't think it's arbitrary. I remember last week, I said last week, I said one great way to think about consequentialism is that the the the the evidence that can adjudicate between two competing moral claims is empirical evidence. We go out there in the world, and we get up our suffering detector and a happiness detector. And so, however you think we can ascertain these things, even if a reasonable person defends a reasonable person, fence is a good one. But it depends on how things are in the world. Well, Kantian ethicist absolutely do not think this at all. Kantian ethicist or deontological ethics is to what are also known as rule based ethicist but be careful with that one that's going to confuse you.

Unknown Speaker  17:51  
They think that

Unknown Speaker  17:53  
the mechanism of arbitration between competing moral claims is something that we can access simply by thinking about it really, really carefully. And we absolutely do not ever need to examine how things are in the world. In other words, you can come say speak, I would say the Kardashians think that moral facts can be discovered by pure computation. Just by grinding through some axioms. And thinking about it very carefully, we can arrive at the truth about moral facts as putting things more philosophically Kantian ethicists think that moral facts are knowable, a priori who has never heard the term a priori before?

Unknown Speaker  18:52  
Who has weird

Unknown Speaker  18:55  
okay, it's usually like everyone will no one that's kind of stiff. Okay, here's what it means. It's going to come up as a quick segue it's going to come up in in your readings and especially if you go off into that thing called the internet Be careful looking at philosophy on the internet. Every second undergraduate thinks or a manual car edits to Wikipedia page doesn't make any sense. Are you going to know okay?

Unknown Speaker  19:23  
Oh, that's an Arthurian A priori, right?

Unknown Speaker  19:29  
It's a category of nobility. Something is knowable a priori or it is not knowable a priori. It's not the case that something is true a priori or false a priori right. That's just the loose use of language but people need to say that is something is something's truth is knowable, a priori what is knowable Apri or, I mean, it means knowable, by reason alone without going and checking stuff. So I'll give you an example. Right now If you want to know right now, how many chairs there are in my office, there is no way that you can work this out just by going, wait, wait, I've got this. There are three. It's not how it works, right? It's impaired you need empirical data, you have to go there and you have to look right so that the number of chairs and says office, whatever the answer to that is, it is not normal A priori, not. Okay. Consider instead is something like one plus one equals two. That's normal API. All right. There's no particular thing you need to go and check. You just learn how mathematics work. And once you know the rules, you think about it carefully. And if you can think about it correctly, and you understand the meaning of all of the terms, you'll be able to work out that one plus one equals two without going and investigating any particular matter of empirical fact. So mathematical claims, unless you're strange, unknowable April's all Swampers unknowable A priori, right? Noble A priori, which is not sure I'm sure one of you were saying. But if I never had any experiences at all, but I even know about mathematics, that's not what this means at all. Of course, you would probably, I mean, that's, that's not what this means. It just means that to know that one plus one equals two, given that you're, you're already a rational thinking human being, there's no particular thing that you need to go and look at, in order to find out what the answer is. Right? Unlike the amount of tea the second part, or the number of chairs in my office is roughly making sense. You write a whole PhD thesis on this, if something's not lower the library or I we say it's normal, a stereo. The stereo Yeah, that's just means normal prior to experience a novel after experience, posterior to experience, that's all it means. That says philosophers like to use old fashioned words, to make it difficult for other people to understand what they're saying. Right? That's it. That's all that's going on. But you will come across these terms, I promise you when you're reading around, I don't want you beating your head against the wall. If you're ever reading something, there's some term, what does this mean? And you look up the deputy, just email me or send me a message on it. It'll tell you if you've got better things to do than spend two days trying to work out what an old piece of Latin or Greek means. I'll just tell you it's not a mystery, sir. Okay. Tom thinks that moral facts and overlay Priora. In other words, by brute computation alone, that's all that we mean him. That's all that this means. Okay, unlike utilitarians, the moral facts are only knowable at a stereo or a period of evidence, making sense. Bit of jargon be a little bit as we go along. Now, how on earth Bhutan, everything something like this? Well, we're going to work towards this in the rest of the first half of this lecture. Here's how current begins, right. Kant wrote a lot, I would be careful if you're reading Cobb, directly, secondhand. If you want to go and read the third Critique of Pure Reason, then you're on your own. I'm not helping right now. The groundwork for the Metaphysics of Morals is what we're looking at here. But still secondhand is good. Unless you're in deep, in which case go for it. Now,

Unknown Speaker  23:15  
he says the following. He says, Well, what? What is the difference

Unknown Speaker  23:25  
between us and the rest of the animal kingdom says, well, humans have the capacity, the capacity, right? To act freely. He's gonna say what this means. So he doesn't think that we always do, but he thinks it is at least possible for us to act freely, unlike any other member of the natural order. How so? Well, Tom thinks that to act freely, is to act rationally. So here are some examples of what that is not. Right? If I'm acting on impulse, on instinct, or out of unreflective habits, or out of emotions or passions can't we'll use that passions and emotions interchangeably, right, then I'm not acting freely. I'm acting freely, when I am reflecting upon my options for actions and on the basis of that reflection, choosing to act one way instead of another irrespectively of how I might want to act or feel as though I am moved to act antecedently. That is to say before or prior to that To act of rational reflection, this is 18th century German philosophy, lots of thinking carefully about everything and writing 1000s and 1000s of pages.

Unknown Speaker  25:11  
Okay? Now

Unknown Speaker  25:16  
if, yes, we were to enslave another person, we would be robbing from them their capacity to act freely. And that's wrong. This is an instance of something that's wrong, no matter what the empirical consequences are for cause taking someone's not taking, but just a person's individual freedom, a person's autonomy, to act in the way that they want to act is sacrosanct. And we never, ever, ever have any existent justification for interfering with the free action of another person. I know you're thinking, but wouldn't this have terrible? Yes, it does, which we'll get to that. But sure that I can't say no, no, no, right there acting as a free agent, you will get there, we will get there. Okay. Now, who has heard their parents or someone else say something like this, like, don't trust that person. They're a user, they're just using you. Does anyone that my mother says all the time, this is a bit old fashioned now, maybe like very user, right? It has anyone never heard that term. It's very old fashioned Australian, a user. It's when to here's an example, right? I'm being really friendly, and so on to you know, have a final example, suppose were at school together. And I'm like old hip, and you're, you're a nerd. I'm totally not having anything to do with you. Because definitely, I'm the coolest person to school. And it's in my best interest as far as I'm concerned, to shun you, because being nice to you would not be in my best interest, insofar as my social opportunities at that school of concern. But now school's over, I'm like, crap, all I know how to do is like, drive my car down the main street and hang out at the rugby club or something. And I have no idea what to do with my life. And now, all that, that buddy nerd from school, they're like about to do a PhD and everything. And maybe I should find out where they hang out and be nice to them now, because I can use them to gain advantage for myself. That sort of person is a user, right? They treat other people as resources to get what they want, rather than treating other people as ends in themselves.

Unknown Speaker  28:16  
Cat says is that

Unknown Speaker  28:20  
we must never, ever, ever treat another person as a means to an end, we should never treat another person as a mere resource. Rather, we should always and only treat other human beings as ends in themselves. They are a means to nothing, they're not a stepping stone to anything else, this distinction becoming

Unknown Speaker  28:49  
relatively clear.

Unknown Speaker  28:52  
So obviously, this means if you work in marketing or advertising, Kant thinks that you're scum. Right? It's that simple. There is no room for manipulation of another person in carts, ethical roll view, it is never ever, ever justified. The whole idea of marketing and advertising is that you're trying to get somebody else depart with something of there's a value for something of yours that is of less value, why and that's how you make a profit. That's how it works. So since marketing and advertising, advertising and so on, realize essentially on manipulation and deceit, right, there will be no room for anything of the sort in Kant's worldview. You don't find a lot of content ethicist in our classroom. It's just that the make of that what you will. So Kant thinks that people should only and always be treated as ends in themselves. This idea that we would just treat another person as a resource to get some other thing is a part. It's apt To the apart, so obviously slavery would be just about the worst possible example of using a person as a resource. Unless you were using them, I don't know is a battery or organ harvesting or something like that, like something really, really bad. But But he says this distinction is something that extends itself into every dimension of our lives when it comes to how it is that we are interacting with other people. We should always an only tell the truth. Oh, thinking, but surely they'll be time's up. Nah, not if your car now.

Unknown Speaker  30:40  
I'm good, good again.

Unknown Speaker  30:44  
Okay, before we move on to how it is like this sounds good. But these are just kind of slogans. The sound all of this sounds a little bit well, like advertising for cars view, right? What we want to know, is he a manual? Mate? What do you want to learn? How, how do we how, what systematic basis do we have? By which we can be sure that we're always doing the right thing in the sense in which you mean the right thing? I've heard rumors about this method of Pure Reason, these acts of computation that will take us to moral truths. What is this wonderful, perhaps insane thing? Tell me more. So we're going to look at this in just a moment. It's called the categorical imperative. Who has heard of the categorical imperative? Who has heard of it outside of the readings for this week?

Unknown Speaker  31:45  
Wow. How? Michael?

Unknown Speaker  31:52  
Thomas? I, I think, I think all Mater Manuel have a word or two to say about the excellent, I've got up did you understand it?

Unknown Speaker  32:10  
Does anyone believe that they understand the categorical imperative? One and a half people, okay. By the end of this, you will will. It's actually really simple. It's just stated in ridiculously complicated ways. I'm going to say it in the ridiculously complicated way a couple of times. I'm going to explain it a couple of times, and we'll all get it, then we'll look at some examples. But before we get there, I'd like to know from all of you, if there are any questions at all about anything we've talked about so far.

Unknown Speaker  32:44  
Count usually, yes. So what any sort of management was treating people as resources during management. Project or whatever?

Unknown Speaker  33:00  
Yeah, that's an excellent, I'll just repeat your question for the people online. The question was, according to Kantian, ethicist would all forms of management that is personnel management presumably, be considered a violation of the maxim that one should never treat a person as a means to an end? No, I really don't think so. I think some would in some wouldn't. It really depends on on the the nature of the project. So I one of my first jobs, anecdote time, one of my first jobs after high school who like 10 others one of them was for Australia's biggest gift were wholesaler of novelty giftware, so things like lava lamps, every lava lamp that got shipped out to Australia to every shop, every single last one, when it had a fault, which was a lot of the time came back to me. Personally, I have forgotten more about lava lamps than most people will ever know about anything, right? Anyway. But we in this companies is companies outside the managing directors in the boardroom, as opposed to say they test testing for new new product. And it said something like a matte light try to conceive of the stupid as possible person you can, will they understand how it works? And if yes, then great. We can sell it to like 10s of 1000s of stupid people. I think that company was probably treating people as a means to an end, rather than ends in themselves. And I can probably that that particular work ethic managed to propagate itself through the got banned by multiple employment agencies. There was terrible, terrible bit funny but bad. But then I've worked in other places and you will to where people really believe in what they're doing and the entire profit making part A side of things is, that is the means to an end. It's just so it's so many technology startups. And so Google, when they really started, especially, they really believed the stop all all the antecedent sort of business practices, they have a means to an end to achieve this other thing, as opposed to trying desperately to look out, look around for some kind of money making thing that you can do, because it's the making of the money. That is the is the end end in itself. So it's really going to depend, I think you've business practices fascinating. I'd love to do the philosophy of business practices of it, because it ends up reflecting every aspect of human nature, ultimately, because it's where humans come together to do stuff all day. So of course it will, that's not surprising. So I've been surprised that the internet has weird behavior on the internet is full of people. Have you met people? Of course, it's weird. It's not weird at all. Okay. Are there any? Oh, that was a really good question. Thank you. Are there any others?

Unknown Speaker  36:00  
Yes, that's a similar question

Unknown Speaker  36:01  
online, about example, seems like making friends is against common ethics, because it's a justification. Basically, the argument, the argument was able to satisfy loneliness and my connection. Anyone who has any sort of,

Unknown Speaker  36:19  
yeah, if, if your motivation for friendship was because you were looking for some kind of, like, emotional support human, you know, that was, like, you know, I need a friend, what do I have to do to get these friend things because they make my life easier? Yes, that will be to use them as a means to an end as opposed to ends in themselves. But I refuse to believe that old friendships are like this. Some of them are and hopefully we notice it as quickly as possible. Right. But most of them are people who are pretty people are pretty good at spotting this sort of thing. You know, and anyone who's really good at not being spotted, like some master sociopath or something. But usually they give themselves away, but only been really done once. I think I knew it was gonna happen. I was just lying to myself. All right. Well, Oh, good. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  37:14  
Write this up.

Unknown Speaker  37:29  
Categorical Imperative, right? Okay. What is it? It's taught, Oh, who's heard that the categorical imperative is Do unto others as you would have them do unto you? Has anyone heard that? Okay, that is not true. It's false. All right, that was a time that was Jesus. These are two different papers. Now, it's not surprising, right? That there are versions of the categorical imperative that sounds very like the philosophy of Jesus, for the simple reason that Kant was trying, quite deliberately to reconstruct the theological philosophy of St. Paul, using acts of Pure Reason, as opposed to just saying, last night, God came and visited me and he told me this, and I had a vision, it needed to be he is trying to find a rational place, a mathematical basis to everything. So the categorical imperative is this method that we use to arrive at moral truths. And it's entirely a priori, it's like algebra. It's a way of thinking about things, such that if we execute these procedures or acts of reasoning, in the correct manner, if we're smarter, we will always only arrive at the moral truths. So here it is, I'm not going to write it up, as written in the book, Google it, I'm just going to say it's also a very long way to say it twice, that I'm going to explain it a lot. And say it again.

Unknown Speaker  39:04  
The categorical imperative is as follows.

Unknown Speaker  39:10  
Act only, according to that maximum, which you could at the same time will to be a universal law. Perfectly good. That's the end of lecture. Essays due tomorrow.

Unknown Speaker  39:26  
I'll say it again. I told you how to recap, at only

Unknown Speaker  39:33  
in accordance with that maxim, such that you could at the same time, will that maxim to be a universal law. Okay. So what's a maximum? It's a moral rule. What does he mean by Universal Law? He means it's binding for everybody all of the time. So I'll restate it in non pompous English act only according to that moral rule, whatever it might be act only according to a moral rule. If you could, at the same time, rationally want that that moral rule is a universal law that everybody absolutely must obey without exception. Yes, you just write it down. No, no, no, no, no. Pay attention. It's in the books in the reading. It takes so long to write 40 pages isn't law, or raw, write it up before the break. But I just really want people to, I don't want the thing where the the idea is passing the whiteboard to the notes now passing to the brains of anyone in the room. Think carefully about this. card as I simplified, it makes more and more sense, right? Act only you've got some moral rule, and you think it's telling you how to act. And Kant says, Well, you should only act. According to that moral rule, you should only follow the rule, if you could, without being inconsistent, desire rationally that everybody else followed that same rule all the time. So you can see how this starts to sound a little bit like, do unto others as you would have them do unto you.

Unknown Speaker  41:25  
Because a Christian, act only

Unknown Speaker  41:29  
morally in such a way that you would be perfectly happy for everybody else to act all of the time. But he doesn't just mean be perfectly happy, he really thinks that it's on pain of something like in conceivability. Really, so I'll say it again, at only, you will only follow or act in accordance with some kind of moral instruction.

Unknown Speaker  41:57  
Only if

Unknown Speaker  41:59  
you could will or desire or wants it for it rationally without being nuts. to dictate to help everybody else had to add to all of the time without exception.

Unknown Speaker  42:11  
Okay, so given the Yes. What if like,

Unknown Speaker  42:16  
one of your maximum, it's always justifiable to like throw rocks at each other. Ah, say you were like a masochist and enjoy it. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  42:27  
That's a really good example of what if one of your Maximus was it's okay to throw rocks at people. And then you crunched, you grind through the categorical imperative. And you go, all right, exercising my faculties of content reason, and you do the thing? And then there'll be throwing rocks at everyone all the time. And that's fine. I like having rocks thrown at me. Well, there are two things. One that's not going to be five by cops is actually it's going to violate the categorical imperative. In particular, it's going to violate the rationality constraint. I'll get there in a moment. Secondly, a monoid everything. Not only do you think it will, Todd will be the first person to say, and this is a dark side of it. Being good at being moral supervenes on being very smart, because it's just like doing algebra. The Dhamma you are, the less you are able to be a morally good person. Right? You might be morally blameless, because you're incapable of reasoning. Yes. Oh, sorry. Yes. Can I explain supervenes? Well, so I'll write this up. Thank you. That's my bad supervenes. supervenes if a if a supervenes. On me, it just means that a change in a will affect a change in B, but not vice versa. That's all it means. All it means depends upon all call, you know, can you say all causal relations or supervenience? Relations? Yes. Are all supervenience relations, causal relations? Probably not all sorts of weird things to do with consciousness? We don't understand yet. Right. But that is us all that I'm so sorry. If I use any other weird term of art, let let me know. Let me know. Sorry. A supervenes. On big of crab had it backwards. I suck. Sorry, everyone. I explained that backwards. As if a supervenes on B. I'm correcting myself. I apologize. I'm very sorry. What that means is that the change in B will affect a change in a but not vice versa. I am sorry, I said it backwards the first time. Right. That's what it means. It's all it means. is a super bit if if something super first thing supervenes On the second thing, it means that the change in the second Anything which affect the change in the first thing? Top? Two things. First one is can you give an example of something? I'm not sure of any quite entirely clear. Sure, sure. Yeah, absolutely. Where this piece of chalk at the moment where this piece of chalk is supervenes on my will. My will in no way supervenes On this piece of chalk.

Unknown Speaker  45:28  
That's one exam. Good, sir.

Unknown Speaker  45:33  
I think sir, like your will decide on the targets, but the Trump doesn't say what your will is exactly that. Okay. Yeah. So all causal relations are supervenience relations. The converse is not necessarily the case. For most people, if you think all sorts of weird things about consciousness, there was a second question, which requires us to go back a little bit, surely is. The question was,

Unknown Speaker  45:57  
can you explain what

Unknown Speaker  45:57  
an N is? Sure. And then as a result, and also an ultimate result? A state of affairs. So you can't use people to achieve states of affairs, they are just states of affairs in themselves. You can't use them as a tool. Like they are just they are the goal, not means to get to them. So here's an example. Let's think of lying Well, here's a rough starting example again. Suppose and here's the rationality constraint. Suppose that I think that it's okay to lay lay sometimes, like there is no categorical imperative. That one should never lie. Not a coincidence. Thou shalt not lie. 10 commandments can't doing this with logic in the bathtub stone. Okay. So here's how it works, I think, but is it okay to lie sometimes? Surely, if, you know, if I'm not, you know, if I'm hiding Jewish children from the Nazis, and you know, and what do you know, it's the Gestapo at the front door. And I, I tell my friend a quick Hi, and it's the Gestapo, some of the Gestapo taking the front door, and they say, We know that you're hiding the Jews here. Where are they? Surely you think, in that case, the right thing to do Marilee would be to tell a little fib and say, I have no idea. I'm here alone.

Unknown Speaker  47:35  
Not if you're calm.

Unknown Speaker  47:38  
She is why, right.

Unknown Speaker  47:42  
This is a problem for constitute, okay.

Unknown Speaker  47:45  
Well, we execute an instance of the categorical imperative, if you'd like say, at least the Categorical Imperative imperative? Well, I think it's okay to lie. Now, imagine, in the past, if it had been the case, that everyone had been lying all of the time, all the time. Everybody, always, that's the universal law part, that you could not at the same time, will or desire or want to be the case, rationally to be a universal law. So I think, well, that's it if I think it's okay for me. Now, is it permissible, but let's imagine this scenario, where everyone is doing it all the time, because it's a universal law, like what goes up must come down something really strict universal law, and then can't reasons as follows? Well, if everyone had been lying all the time, then no one would have believed anybody ever. Right? And if no one had believed anybody ever, there would never have been long lasting sort of even fleeting social relationships of trust. And if there hadn't been social relationships of trust, there never would have been anything like the social contract. If there hadn't been much less functioning families, if there hadn't been anything like the social contract, then we wouldn't have long term the stable societies. If there weren't long, long running stable societies, there wouldn't be institutions. If there weren't institutions, there wouldn't be institutions of learning. If they weren't institutions of learning, they wouldn't be universities, and if there hadn't been universities, then we would not all be here today having this conversation, but we are here today having this conversation. So the idea that it is ever okay to lie is inconceivable.

Unknown Speaker  49:53  
From a selling human, this is how it works.

Unknown Speaker  49:57  
We can identify those things that are categorical imperatives, they're imperatives, that thing we must do with categorically just means, without exception, without exception. Because if we think of something, something like we have a categorical imperative to always tell the truth to never

Unknown Speaker  50:15  
lie. We imagine the case,

Unknown Speaker  50:18  
we think, Well, surely it's okay to lie sometimes. But to test it, we imagine the counterfactual scenario that just means suppose things had been this way in the past, where it had been a universal law to lie all the time. Is that conceivable? According to Kant, no, because if that had been the case, we wouldn't be here. Now, it would be impossible, it makes no sense to even try to imagine such a wall. So we know that we have a categorical imperative to never lie. Yes.

Unknown Speaker  50:54  
Raise your ask you something like, always communicate your will. In which case, I could have a communication might be specified that my children are planning. That's what I wanted to communicate, I wanted to find the children. So

Unknown Speaker  51:15  
ah, whatever. Okay, I'm going to repeat this. So for those beaming in, the idea is what if we reconstruct the axiom so so it says, always communicate one's will, whatever it might happen to be. Now, who thinks that they can run a pretty thorough categorical imperative test on this always communicate once will? That would mean that we have to imagine a counterfactual scenario. That means one that's a contrary to fact conditional. Right? That's a contrary to that condition. Where everyone had been communicating there will

Unknown Speaker  52:01  
all of the time. Yes. Why don't you do something appropriate do like, I just really want to run around this lecture theatre and interrupt to the lecture.

Unknown Speaker  52:23  
I'm sure more than one person would like to do that. Now. The categorical impact circulars in home like

Unknown Speaker  52:34  
that so the counter example to the suggestion is, but surely that will lead to a bit of chaos pretty quickly. And so that that's why we have social norms, because we hadn't had any about behavior, we, we'd be in a terrible situation. And we're not in that situation. So clearly, that can't have been the case. Has anyone here seen a film called manic? It's like an indie film about these teenagers in the psychiatric ward. And half the actors in it are not real actors. They're actually teenagers in a psychiatric ward. And it's a little independent film for somebody's first movie. So there's wonderful script. And there's a scene in it, where one kid gets angry at the other kid and hits him. And of course, the kid hits how the kid gets in trouble. And the head psychiatrist is telling him off in the office. And the kid, the tough kid who hit the other tough kid says like, Hi, Chris. Come on, man. You wanted to hit that stupid motherfucker, too. And if you don't know enough to that right now, then I know you're lying son of a bitch. And you're always talking about telling the truth. And the psychologist looks at him and says, Man, everyone in the room wanted to hit the stupid motherfucker, you actually went and did it. Right? Don't you get it? Like, it's not about what we want all the time. That's why you're locked up in the psychiatric world because you take some hits, maybe with a baseball bat. But that's the premise of the film and these wonderful moments that people speak dragged kicking and screaming into adulthood. Realizing that, you know, we forgive a lot of instinctual behavior with toddlers, rabbit as people get all the stuff as well. Like you got to learn there's a difference between wanting to do something on the one hand and doing it on the other. So the idea that always speaking, speaking your will and doing what you would want to do would be could be could survive the Categorical Imperative test, not a chance, a great example. But now you have been waiting patiently, someone here had a hand because it you know, you're sticking your stone example. Can you see how that would go? Now, if everyone had been throwing stones at everyone all the time? Yeah, everyone will be dead. And we wouldn't be here now wondering about whether or not there was a category of imperative to not throw stones. So there's a categorical imperative to never throw rocks at people.

Unknown Speaker  54:49  
Oh, automation.

Unknown Speaker  54:52  
Accidentally, as best you can do something, some of the time benefit universal law would be everyone's doing it all the time.

Unknown Speaker  54:59  
Yes. Oh, absolutely. That's the test. I think you will first the question is this can't see all lies has been equally bad, right? Yes, he does all of them all the time. He's not joking, right? He's absolutely not joking. He says that you should tell the truth to the Gestapo. They can try and talk them out of it. But you can't lie, because then you'd be treating them as a means to an end. And then if the Gestapo, they are upstairs and they kill the Jewish children, well, that's on them. I mean, they're the ones who build as you try to do the right thing. Right. He's, he's so serious. So serious. Yes. The

Unknown Speaker  55:52  
consequences.

Unknown Speaker  55:55  
Finally, because like, if you're looking at all these everyone's life, consequences as in society. Excellent. Thank you. Yes. Okay. I'm waiting for this. So what's your name? So again, Harris, I thought it was you. Okay. Excellent. Paris does ask the best question says, when you're thinking about what would happen when everybody lied all the time, when you're executing an instance of the categorical imperative? Isn't this consequentialism? Are we just thinking about the consequences? Oh, no. And here's why. Right? Here's the difference between consequentialism on the one hand, and tighten down to logical ethics on the other. consequentialism is work consequentialism is working with indicative conditionals. And Kantian ethics is working with counterfactuals. That's it. That's perfectly clear. Here's what this means. When we're reasoning was consequentialism. We're thinking about how things would be tomorrow, or at some point in the future. If we acted that way. Now, with the categorical imperative, we're thinking about how things would be now, if we had acted in a certain way, in a past that is, according to Kant, different from the one that we must have had in order to be, you know, cardinality balls, thinking along these lines, okay. If everybody had always acted this way, in the past, then would such and such be the case now? Or would it be conceivable that it would be the case now, whereas there's no, there's there's no criteria of conceivability on top of consequentialism, I can say, lock, if I'm a consequentialist, I can discuss my flame thrower. And all the people on the right side of the ledger theater Tron lucky day, right? I'm just gonna get my flame. And you will die. Horrible, fiery death. Whoo, hey, I'm glad he likes to look inside. But But there's nothing inconceivable about that. Right? It's just bad. It's just like that it's a horrible thing. I think completely different criteria. And the content method is to go counterfactually to think about how everything would have been now if people had always been acting in such in such a way. That's not how consequential is think about it at all. This is explained not terribly well, in the book. Consequences think about How would things be in the future fact that this way now, and even if they conceal, it doesn't matter? If they have if they if they result in a lower amount of net utility than some other action, the other actions the better thing to do? Great question. Thank you for asking. I was going to bring it up just before the break if no one had asked it, but you got there just in time. Well done. Yes. Cool.

Unknown Speaker  58:47  
Especially in fact, that is one of the three so we can kind of break bills like breathing questions, okay.

Unknown Speaker  58:52  
Okay, I think yeah, come and ask them over here. And we'll come back at 10 past to do virtue ethics. Oh, wait, before you go. Think about if you're trying to automate or procedure alized moral reasoning, you're trying to proceed you realize it Kantian ethics would be a great way to go. If you're trying to proceed utilize it in ways that doesn't depend on gathering dynamic empirical information. Okay, it's very popular in a lot of AI ethics circles, because you can hard code these sorts of rules in algorithmically okay now we're gonna have a break and come back into the past

Unknown Speaker  59:33  
to try and hopefully me What did he say instead of always a lie, we always lie on the

Unknown Speaker  59:46  
X. Oh, what if you replace you can always lie with you always lie on lie on the instance x. There are contemporary versions of cartoon ism that do relax the constraint and try and introduce certain can textual parameters, the counter argument against these dodgy versions of Kantian ethics is that there is no so far no one has been able to put together some kind of contextual flexibility within a deontological system that doesn't just run away on you. And you end up having to add context, why context see health is a well, it never ends, right? And it just collapses into something like a rule utilitarianism.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:33  
Basically, what you're saying is one of the original contracts

Unknown Speaker  1:00:37  
on original content is no, no, no context at all never matters, right.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:45  
I also wrote an essay about how does lions great people with the beans prevent

Unknown Speaker  1:00:53  
you from manipulating them? Yeah, lying treats people to an end because you are manipulating them, you are trying to affect their behavior in such in such a way, your goal, your end is their behavior. And they are simply a means to that in some state of affairs that you would like to bring about great questions on my neighbor, these are really good. obviously gonna be here in person.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:22  
Sorry.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:29  
Third question from way back. Yes, age

Unknown Speaker  1:01:34  
depends on I supervenes on bait will be another way of saying a depends on B. If a supervenes on the then a change in B affects a but not vice versa. So A will be depending on beef. Oh, I see. So so. I guess at least because I got back I said the first definition wrong. Confused everyone alive.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:08  
Let me just quote back the example that somebody gave. Talk to me what's a once the position of control depends on

Unknown Speaker  1:02:31  
points. Yes. So the position of the talk supervenes on my wants? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So a depends on B. Right, then a supervenes. On the Okay. Absolutely. Yeah, because I said it backwards the first time around.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:48  
I also think that was saying based on what you said.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:52  
That's gonna be a long night on infamy. Sorry about that everyone.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:59  
Just some of the rationalization process from my previous experience is it must

Unknown Speaker  1:03:10  
come here. Yeah, this is a really good question. So ask this question to the microphone. Hello, everyone. thought this one would be good for the microphone.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:19  
Oh, okay. Is it? Is it possible to go through this rationalization process? Having had no previous experiences? Is it possible to say for example, raise a human being in a black box, and possibly still for them to come to the same conclusions as somebody that had been living in the real world?

Unknown Speaker  1:03:38  
Absolutely not. Yes. Okay. Good. Is this question? Remember, that's not what a priori means. No. Well,

Unknown Speaker  1:03:53  
I suppose it might be a pirate saying that but yeah, yeah. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:56  
It's always I remember this cat's paw doesn't think that, you know, if you just been raised in a bubble or something with no apparent stimuli, that you'd be capable of thinking of anything, much less than

Unknown Speaker  1:04:18  
awesome. question posted on.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:26  
response to the issue.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:32  
I think what's happened is that a lot of students had face to face Toots on Thursday. Now wants to go into an online model for the rest of the week. This week. Yeah, exactly. I'm still trying. They're gonna have to probably go on Thursday or Friday. I'm trying to get it's up to the individual tutors to build their own links. And they got to send those things to me. They've not done so so I have nothing to share. But as soon as I do, I will share Hello. I want to make sure they like one time only links and not something that anyone's setting up the whole time. Otherwise it gets students scattering to the wind and like bricks. That gets zero because actually they won't be able to enter their life. So it's just rich fire that burned longer to stop the other one. Oh, that would be all about

Unknown Speaker  1:05:25  
lack of speaking as opposed to making the decision Oh,

Unknown Speaker  1:05:33  
yeah. Absolutely a good thing because deliberately withholding wouldn't be willing to witness to be treating them as a means to an end.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:47  
So So I think that it starts with provokes the idea of decision. You can't stop the job, it probably is going to either pull the lever. Oh, yeah, definitely disregard situation where you could get out of that situation buying in holidays.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:12  
That might that's I'm going to have to brush up on my fill. In one of the other tutors, you'll meet with the tutor meeting next Monday at four o'clock in Sylvania. So here. All right, excellent. All right, thank you.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:42  
Okay.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:48  
There's a categorical imperative to not speak in lectures when lectures waving chalk yet. Right. Good with that.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:57  
Alright, well forget all about that. Just for now. Now, there's this other type of ethical thinker.

Unknown Speaker  1:07:09  
Am I think something like the following? They do, right? I think something like this, they think, look, surely, worrying about the consequences of our actions, is ethically or morally salient, which is just a pretentious way of saying, of course, it matters morally. Of course, being concerned with the happiness of others, is a pretty good thing. But is concerning ourselves with utility maximization, the only thing that is involved in living a moral life, things other people would say, No. It looks like utilitarianism is engaged in a sort of brazenly reductive practice, to take all of our talk about the good and the good life and the right way to live, which is what morality and ethics is all about, and attempting to reduce it all the way down to utility maximization. But there are other aspects of what we might reasonably reasonably consider to be part of a life well live. Things like past times, that just give us pleasure, even if they don't give other people pleasure, like sports, music, arts, meditation. Housework if you're so inclined, give me my address afterward. And utilitarian and consequentialism seem to have nothing to say about this. What about actions about which were neither prohibited from doing nor obliged to do? They seem to slip through the entire net of content more reasoning. It's not obvious how a Kantian ethicist could get any traction on such actions like, is cooking, spending a certain amount of time to cook a really nice meal? Is that basically are we obligated to do it or are we forbidden from doing it? Who knows? It surely, although our according to this sort of person. Surely it is reasonable to suppose that although moral reflections should conform to our rational reflections themselves are reflections of rational ality maybe that's not all that there is, maybe to be a good person to act will morally involves a much wider, much wider domain of actions, states of affairs and types of personhood, then either consequentialism or deontological ethics, which is to say Cartesian ethics would allow neither Kantian ethics, nor, for that matter, any form of consequentialism has much, if anything at all to say about one's motives when one acts in the world. And for the third type of normative ethical theory that we'll be looking at in this course, motives are motivations for actions matter a great deal, because it is our motives that reveal the type of person that we are. Certain time normative ethical theory about which I'd like to speak to today is known as virtue ethics.

Unknown Speaker  1:11:30  
There are three main main types of virtue ethics,

Unknown Speaker  1:11:39  
there's confusion, confusion, just virtue ethics, there is Buddhist virtue ethics. And there is our strategic alien virtue ethics, we're going back in time here, we started with consequentialism, which is the most contemporary form of normative ethical theory, we went back to roleplays, down to logical Kantian ethics. And now we're going all the way back to virtue ethics. Virtue ethics is even older than I am. But it's seen a resurgence in popularity in the last several decades. But again, having said that, I would really like by May, to impress upon you the fact that the truth is never a popularity contest. All the popularity means is that if something is the really popular view, it's the dominant view, it's what we might call canon is the accepted belief that even if you think it's wrong, then the onus is on you to convince everybody else it is wrong, because you're the weirdo, right? You asked us, you're the statistical outlier. If you're like, No, no, no, the world really is flat, you need to do a lot of work now, right to convince me that the world is flat, and most people because it's not accepted wisdom, right? Now, in Australia, probably consequentialism is the dominant view now in Australia, for sure. It's probably the only one that people outside of academia.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:10  
Now, probably, how does virtue ethics work? Well, I'm going to concentrate

Unknown Speaker  1:13:19  
on RSA Chilean virtue ethics, because I know more about it than the other two, there's less opportunity for catastrophic error.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:27  
Now, virtue ethics

Unknown Speaker  1:13:31  
is concerned primarily with the virtues, which is useful, it does what it says on the tin. What are the virtues, the virtues are traits of one's character. One's character is one's disposition to act in a certain way, in certain circumstances, it's the type of person that somebody is we judge, we say that a person is of a certain type, because of the way that they behave most of the time, in certain situations. Who, who has heard the phrase, virtue signaling? Well, I choose accurately and inaccurately as well. But what what it means is that it is and it's been weaponized now to just allowed people to get away with big and horrible assholes and stuff. But originally it was that, you know, you are saying that you are this type of the person by saying, you know, I stand with so and so. But you're not doing shit, right? You think you don't the last thing If so and so moved in next door, you'd sell their house and leave, you wouldn't give so and so the time of the day, you just happen to believe it is to your social advantage, to proselytize in public that you stand with so and so. But this is not One of your character traits at all, you are merely signaling a virtue, rather than living it, and manifesting it as an actual part of your personhood as an actual part of your character. And your character, again, once character is once disposition or tendency to act in certain ways, in certain conditions, I'll give you a couple of examples. Suppose, I'm trying to convince you that I am of a brave character, I'm a brave person. Bravery is a virtue. But every time something even vaguely threatening happens, I like and I run away, like, Hey, you're not brave, your account. So that their dispositions to act, and I can say that I'm brave. But if every time you see me, I'm acting in a way that no reasonable person would believe is brave, then you would be more than justified, according to the virtue ethicist to say that bravery is not one of my character traits. And I do not manifest or realize the virtue of bravery. So character traits are character they allow for exceptions. You know, somebody ran in here now, waiting was something I hate porridge and a chainsaw around, I probably run away, right? Because that's more than I signed up for. To be a university lecturer. I've been chased by chainsaw wielding, porridge force feeders, like I'm not down for that. And it's not, it's not part of the deal. Okay, it's not part of the deals. And of course, now, it should be perfectly obvious that the actual phrase virtue signaling is used by horrible people to insulate themselves in any any criticism whatsoever, when they behaved terribly, but it's saying, Oh, you're just virtuous. So the term has long since left academia now. And it's just just part of whatever it is that these people do on Twitter when they're getting angry at each other? I don't know. I don't know what, everyone's nice to be on Twitter.

Unknown Speaker  1:17:28  
But now

Unknown Speaker  1:17:34  
what's the difference between a virtue advice? Well,

Unknown Speaker  1:17:41  
a virtue

Unknown Speaker  1:17:42  
always lies between a pair of vices. virtues are good character traits, and vices, or bad character traits.

Unknown Speaker  1:17:57  
Now how do we know

Unknown Speaker  1:18:03  
what the virtues are? How do we know what a good character trait is? How do we know what a bad character trait is? Can't we just gerrymander it? So we can just pick any dispositions we want? And say, Oh, well, they're the virtuous character traits and the rest of vices and something? Well, according to Aristotle, no.

Unknown Speaker  1:18:26  
I'm surprisingly,

Unknown Speaker  1:18:29  
Aristotle has a procedure for working out what the virtues are, and what the vices are. There's a way of doing this. However, here's what distinguishes Aristotle's methodology and it's not even a methodology here. From both consequentialist, and Kantian ethics. Remember, the consequentialist have a method by which we can calculate expected net utility. Thinking about the good perceiving the good understanding it if you're a utilitarian is something that is subsumed by our acts of rational calculation, have to sit down and work out utilities, there are facts of the matter. It is the good is within the space of reasons, we just do a bit of probability calculus, and then we know what the good is. Similarly, with Carlton deontological ethics.

Unknown Speaker  1:19:35  
Again,

Unknown Speaker  1:19:37  
arriving to an understanding of what the good is, is something that lies within or is subsumed by the space of reasons. It's acts of pure reasoning that don't rely on empirical evidence at all.

Unknown Speaker  1:19:50  
Now, virtue ethicist

Unknown Speaker  1:19:55  
think that this is absolutely utterly wrong. And that if you think the good is something for which one must proffer reasons, in any respect at all, then you have taken a terribly, terribly wrong term on the road to being a good person.

Unknown Speaker  1:20:25  
I'll give you an example.

Unknown Speaker  1:20:28  
I have a friend I talked to who compulsively shoplet. One because they're a kleptomaniac. It's a serious condition. And they're also a philosophy professor, and you would never know. You'd never know. It's remarkable for the markets once in Amsterdam. And they said to me, do you have a steel? I said, What? Like, what do you mean? I said, you know, like, here today, still from the buffet. I can see the look in their face. You still like a hell? I still it's like such a run. Oh, my God, you're gonna know I never get caught. You know? Never never know. And I know I shouldn't do you don't understand. It's like, it is the biggest dopamine hit. And it's like someone who's an alcoholic. I can't not steal. It's a terrible affliction, but at the same time, and I hate it. But I also don't hate it. If you know what I mean, right? I'm like, Oh, my God, just if you do it, me, me, just No, no, no, no, no, right? My other friend, it's not cut the mania at all. It's just disassociation. And they always get caught. Right. Because when they doing it, they don't even remember their own name or where they are. And it's really obvious, and it just stuffing random bags of stuff at you. Like it's insane. It's so it's just like, they've got their bag open in a shop. And that is walking around putting stuff into it, and looking and sometimes they don't get caught. And that's, that's the miracle. I was with the second friend. Were in a shop in Bondi Junction. I mean, go outside the shop, their eyes are glazed over, like they're a different person. And they said, I have all this stuff. And I was like, Oh, my God, I was in the shop with you. And I was talking to them, and it looked like I was distracting you, the police are gonna come, I'm gonna lose my job that What are you doing? What are you doing? How are you gotten these big arguments about it? And they were saying things like, you know, this, this huge multinational company, blah, blah, blah, doesn't matter. We take stuff from from them. And you know, you were talking about libertarians before? What's your reason for this being healthy? And I said, I'm not saying that what you did is wrong, because I have a reason to give you. I'm saying that what you just did is wrong because I have a moral code. And that's not a reason I can give you that can be sucked into an argument and used as a premise. Morality, on this point of view, does not lie within the space of reasons entirely.

Unknown Speaker  1:22:50  
If it doesn't,

Unknown Speaker  1:22:53  
what's Aristotle's going to do when he tells the story about how it is that we can tell the good from the bad? Well, the story he tells is one that makes a recourse to or depends upon something that both consequentialist and Kantian ethicist think has no place in moral hacking whatsoever. Namely, it's the emotions

Unknown Speaker  1:23:27  
are our Stelia virtue ethicist.

Unknown Speaker  1:23:31  
It is the emotions, the right emotions and we'll get to this that revealed to us what the right thing to do is, push

Unknown Speaker  1:23:43  
this analogy.

Unknown Speaker  1:23:46  
Aristotle thinks that just as shapes and colors are perceived through our faculties of vision, and Sonic artifacts are perceived or access through our sense of hearing and our factory property, do you see how this code smells and tastes through a sense of smell and sense of taste, other things we access through a sense of touch, moral properties are revealed to us moral properties are real, absolutely existent objective, non mind dependent properties in the world and they are revealed to us through emotions. That is why it is that Aristotle argues for something that is known as the rationality of the passions is just to say the rationality of the emotions again, passions and emotions used interchangeably. He thinks that there is that use of the emotions is entirely Rational unlike all these other philosophers who say that, you know, the passions are the enemy of reason and these sorts of things. Here's how give you an example. But to understand how this works, we need to understand something else of Aristotle's known as the doctrine of the mean. So we have the doctrine of the main, and the rationality of the passions. Both of these are in the reading, find them on the line. Here's an example where I'm using my emotions to perceive the right thing to do. Now, here's some

Unknown Speaker  1:25:43  
situation. Yes.

Unknown Speaker  1:25:47  
Who knows what the situation is. But I have to act to it. It's a situation I I'm in and I have to act towards it one way. And it's moderately risky, moderately risky. There's no part involved, but it's still more, moderately risky. Now.

Unknown Speaker  1:26:15  
The virtue that I should use to act towards this situation is that of bravery.

Unknown Speaker  1:26:26  
And I use the emotion of fear, to detect

Unknown Speaker  1:26:33  
just the right amount of bravery that I should have the right amount of if I have just the right amount of fear, I'll be acting bravely. So along this line, this is the emotion of fear. Now, if I have way too much fear,

Unknown Speaker  1:26:53  
I'll be acting cowardly, I'll be a coward.

Unknown Speaker  1:26:58  
Being a coward is a vise.

Unknown Speaker  1:27:02  
If I have

Unknown Speaker  1:27:05  
much, too little fear, well, I'll be reckless or fool. And this is a bias as well. But if I have just the right amount of fear, yeah, I'll act bravely. Neither foolishly or recklessly on the one hand, if I have too much fear, sorry, too little fear, and I have a cowardly, if I have too much. So it is through this doctrine of the main, the main, the middle point, between two vices that are right amount of emotions reveals to us a virtue, according to Aristotle, always lies on the main between two vices. Seeing how this works, might not think it's true, but you're at least grasping the general idea here. And this, these, this whole,

Unknown Speaker  1:28:09  
this whole thing. Nothing in here is anything for which we can give an argument.

Unknown Speaker  1:28:25  
It's not a premise in an argument. It's a way of being it's a character trait. It's the type of person you are, it is not something that lies within the space of reasons as we would understand the space of reasons. Today, in today's terms, it's not a premise conclusion, type of thing. Probably should lead pretty immediately to the question, but how much bravery is the right amount of bravery to have? Well, according to Aristotle, this depends on the type of person you are. And the type of person you are will then tell you the type of character traits that are the right character traits to have given that this is the type of person you are

Unknown Speaker  1:29:30  
he thinks that everything

Unknown Speaker  1:29:34  
in everything in the world has a purpose. So it is for the it is the purpose of a knife to cut. It is the purpose of a teacher to teach. But what about people in general diksha that the thing that what what what is what is the purpose of people in general? The purpose of people in general is to be rational because that's what distinguishes us from The rest of the things in the wall. So that's got to be it, according to Aristotle. But he doesn't think that the emotions are something that are that lie outside rationality, or are enemies of reasons. But we can by today's standards say that they're outside the space of reasons insofar as they're not. They're not reasons. The virtues are not reasons we can give another person. We can't change someone's mind.

Unknown Speaker  1:30:33  
But now, suppose

Unknown Speaker  1:30:37  
I'm a university lecturer, and somebody else is a soldier.

Unknown Speaker  1:30:43  
Wouldn't the right

Unknown Speaker  1:30:45  
amount of fear in one situation for a teacher to have be very different from the correct amount of fear for a soldier to have given the different types of people that there are? Aristotle says? Yes, of course. Yes, of course. The right character traits, for a soldier, unsurprisingly, are not the same character traits that are the right character traits for a teacher, and we shouldn't want them to be. Why would you want teachers on the battlefield, we'd sit around arguing about whose turn it was, shoot, somebody is here, just getting over the business of shooting up, suddenly, you wouldn't want presumably, soldiers run everything might just work properly. If they did, but you should, you probably wouldn't want soldiers running your lectures, it'd be a bit shouty, you might be a bit weird. The punishment for not paying attention would be like push ups or be hit or something be terrible, right. So the type of person you are the type of role you fill in society, that dictates the character traits that are the right virtues for you. And the character traits that are the right virtues for you, of those things that correspond to the right amount of emotions to have at the right degree at the right time, in the right situation. So what are they? Is there a list? What's Aristotle about? Like, how can I, what's my checking mechanism? You know, what, what's my rubric against which I can I can test my emotions against in some particular situation against what they should be. And then Aristotle says, There is no such thing. ethic ethics is not something that we can learn by instruction. Ethics is not something that we can proceed your lies automate. Ethics is not something that can be reduced to a small body of rules that can be understood by as it said in your readings, a clever 12 year old. Ethics in case you haven't noticed, that is doing the right thing is not that simple. Acting in the right way, morally, is very difficult. It's not something that we ever just work out. Once we've worked out how to calculate expected utility. I'm gonna get people now for my book and how to be the good person. I guess I'm done with moral theorizing now. And I just get on with it. An hour or something things if that's the sort of person you are, you are a very long way away from being a good person probably couldn't be farther.

Unknown Speaker  1:33:46  
So how do we learn to have the right character?

Unknown Speaker  1:33:55  
How do we learn to actually because you can't, it's not like you're having an emotional reaction to something is not the sort of thing that you start doing. Because you look up a book on how to do it, and you go, Oh, I get that now. And now I have this emotion to this situation. That's not how the emotions work. also said there is no bunch of rules or instructions, you can look up. You need to be raised well. You need to be part of a community where people act, virtuously together. And as we're raised within that virtuous community, we learn we internalize. This is a very sophisticated virus. This is a long time ago. we internalize emotional reactions to things as a function of the emotional behavior of those around us. That might not be wrong but that might not be false. If it is false, it's not obviously false. In philosophy, not obviously, not obviously false is like a high distinction. That's astonishing if you've got that wrong. Not obviously pause right.

Unknown Speaker  1:35:19  
Now

Unknown Speaker  1:35:23  
unfortunately, for those of us who think, oh, maybe I can just work on fear, well, I've got that one down, I can then go and go and work on honesty, and so on and other virtues, as this is not Not a chance, you're not going to have any of the virtues until you have all of them. Because the most important, virtual or just the governing or ones that matter virtue for nieces in the readings, which is just the governing virtue that balances the strengths of all of the others. It's the stable light, it's the one that is revealed to us by a sort of stable emotional maturity that allows us to execute pause on the extent to which all of the other emotions affect our behavior. Another word for furnaces is practical wisdom. practical wisdom, does anyone here know anyone who has an IQ off the charts? There's so much theoretical wisdom, they're really really, really clever, but you wouldn't leave them to look after a tic tac. Right? I've got friends like that. 30 of them really, really smart. But the idea that I've even turned my back on them, they're just not very good at being people, but not terribly virtuous, really clever intellectual. Not very good at being virtuous. But Aristotle thinks is that to be a good person is the following What is it to do the right thing? To do the right thing? Remember, if you're a utilitarian to do the right thing is to maximize expected utility. If you're a content ethicist doing the right thing means acting in accordance with the categorical imperative. If you're an heiress to Chilean virtue, ethics, ethicist

Unknown Speaker  1:37:30  
doing the right thing is

Unknown Speaker  1:37:35  
to act in the same way that a virtuous person would act. In the same situation, the same context doing the right thing morally, according to Aristotle, is to do the thing that one should do in that in that time in that context, in that situation, if one was a virtuous person is to act virtuously. It is not the sort of thing that can be described. axiomatically, it's not the sort of thing that can be reduced to some other discussion of something else entirely, like calculation of expected utilities can think of utilitarians is trying to reduce talk about the good to talk about utilitarian utility maximization. And Kant in ethics are trying to reduce the talk of the good to talk about the categorical imperative, not to say you can't reduce the good to anything. It just is, it's it is its own way of being is its own way of living. The right thing to do is to act in the same way that a virtuous person would act if a virtuous person was in your in your place. And it doesn't, is that a simple answer? No, it's not a simple art. But morality and ethics is not simple or straightforward. Who could ever have believed such a thing? According to virtue ethics? Have you seen the way that utilitarians and cartoonists behave? Have you met any Have you seen the type of people that they are? Right I've got Aristotle's voice on him like that do ranged then there are some a woman whose name I forget to counter by she cheated on her husband is a true story to cause advice about telling her husband honest about the whole thing. Husband the boss are divorced her thrown out of the house completely powerless and she took her own life and couples I guess but she did the right thing you know, except killing herself she shouldn't have done that. But that was still the right thing to do. No matter what the consequences turning up at the dinner party with nothing for your guests because you gave your host because you gave all the extra money away to a charity that's always the right thing to do if you're you to to try to maximize utility. Everyone around you thinks you're a shit but you know you're really a good person. If you do all this stuff. Have the virtue of saying no just stopping reductionist about this, just stop trying to find other stuff to talk about. Because talking about morality and ethics is so hard. Running away from that discussion is not the virtuous thing to do if you're Aristotle. Now, this is virtue ethics.

Unknown Speaker  1:40:24  
I said

Unknown Speaker  1:40:25  
last week that we could think of consequentialism or utilitarianism. So in terms of morality being reduced to something like inputs that depend on inputs from external data, right, if we're thinking of ourselves as the machine that is being optimized, by by, by ethical stuff by running an ethical program, if you're if you're a utilitarian, that program relies essentially, on external not,

Unknown Speaker  1:40:59  
if you're a Kantian, ethicist,

Unknown Speaker  1:41:05  
that optimization of morality within ourselves depends essentially, on refining and improving our own algorithms. And using them the right sort of aware if you are a virtue ethicist. optimizing our own morality depends essentially, on having learned how to interact with other people with the right sort of people. So that the React that we react emotionally in the right sort of ways, so that those emotions take us to the right type of actions that we would have if we are the sorts of people who tend by and large to have those emotional reactions in the vast majority of cases that are not wildly dissimilar to this sort of case. And it is those emotions that move us to act. So for those of you have heard of David Hume, there's an argument that we come along to a lot later, but it's now bootstrapped by a lot of virtue ethicist, no beliefs about matters of fact, are sufficient to cause us to act, we also need a desire a want. And desire is an emotion, we need to want the situation to be a certain type of way. Otherwise, nothing will move us to act. It's all contemporary psychology is built on this. It's called belief desire psychology. If you want to explain a person's actions, if you know what their beliefs were about the situation, and what their desires were about the situation, that's all they need to know, because it's a combination of their beliefs, and the desires that moves them to act and desires are an emotion, think of it like this, I believe this beer in the fridge. And I really, really, really want to be or I desire one really, really strongly. And that combination of by desire for the beer, and the belief of the location of the beer is sufficient to cause me to go over to the future get the beer, and that explains my behavior, folk psychology 101, right. Desire is an emotion. Having the right desires, the right type of emotions that move us to act in the right sort of way. That is, what being a good person just means. That is what it means to be the virtuous person. And this discussion is not something that we can reduce to a simpler discussion about what a virtue ethicist would think is a different topic altogether. The good morality and ethics is irreducible. It is a state of affairs and a way of being that needs to be approached on its own terms. There is no way to eliminate it from the discussion, and there is no way to reduce it to a discussion of something else. Now, have we got? Okay. That's virtue ethics.

Unknown Speaker  1:44:21  
Very quickly, virtue

Unknown Speaker  1:44:22  
ethics. What questions do all of you have about virtue ethics? And yes, say you're

Unknown Speaker  1:44:28  
trying to convince someone

Unknown Speaker  1:44:29  
of your beliefs was wrong. How would you like to be used

Unknown Speaker  1:44:42  
at all? Absolutely, you can. So here's the question. It's a really good one. So what was your name? All of that great question. The question is this. How can we use virtue ethics to arbitrate between moral disagreement? So essentially, the question, straightforwardly, the way that my mother I used to use it with me without knowing anything about virtue ethics. If I was ever doing the wrong thing to somebody else, she had a bit of a sense, she's made me sit down and make me really think about how I had made that other person feel. And how I would feel emotionally, if they had done the same thing to me. It's very hard getting emotional intelligence is a hard thing to teach. But it involves teaching young children raising them properly, once I was raised properly, try to have the right emotional reactions to the right degree to the right situation. And although this seems alien, within this discussion, this academic discussion that we're having, when you think about what we actually think about people's emotional reactions, it's not that we're there when we, if we know that there's a small child out there who's made extremely happy by burning insects with a magnifying glass or a cigarette lighter, we tend to think that they're not just doing something behaviorally wrong, but there's something really deeply wrong with that person. One of the warning signs of a murdering psychopath is someone who had a very young age starts torturing animals to death, because they get a huge amount of pleasure from doing so. Often we think if somebody's attendance at sorry, somebody's attended emotional reactions to a certain state of affairs are really off, that there's something very wrong with that person. There's something wrong with them, not just psychologically, but morally. Our day to day conversations tend to betray something that is not magnificently distant from the very virtue ethics for which Aristotle argued nearly 3000

Unknown Speaker  1:47:10  
years ago. It's pretty smart. there any other questions? You have on? Yes? Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  1:47:17  
Marks comment. But

Unknown Speaker  1:47:18  
kind of also a question is like, isn't this just like, oh, you should do what you should do?

Unknown Speaker  1:47:23  
Isn't this just you should do what you do? Well, that's definitely true. But it's a tautology. Right? We shouldn't you should do and you should do that. Yeah. isn't inherently logical. I guess the question. Yeah. Is virtue ethics inherently tautological? No, because it is, according to Aristotle, are emotions that reveal to us what it is that we should actually do. So it is our emotional maturity and our emotional intelligence that will reveal to us the facts of the matter about moral action and the right thing to do, rather than any explicit act of reasoning along the lines of the categorical imperative, or utility maximization? Yes. How do we agree on waste? How do we agree on what is the pattern?

Unknown Speaker  1:48:19  
Like your example of burning incense? Yep, probably realized, like gaining pleasure. When was that consent?

Unknown Speaker  1:48:36  
How do we how do we know we've arrived at consensus when it comes to emotional reactions to things? I'm just repeating the study for the people online. The virtue ethicists. There's no procedural books that we can check. There's no way to outsource this recognition. There is no description. There's no set of necessary and sufficient conditions that can be given for that is to make a fatal error. Rather, we'll recognize it when we see it. It doesn't get any any any clearer than that. Unfortunately, I got here the charge two against virtue ethics is that it's irretrievably elitist. And virtue ethicist used to say Yeah, absolutely. Some people are better people than others. believe that if you don't believe that, you're in for short. Absolutely.

Unknown Speaker  1:49:33  
Had Yes.

Unknown Speaker  1:49:36  
What are your personal views? That's one of my personal views on ethics. Oh, I'd probably I've never been tempted by death something utilitarianism or death, something done political ethics. Probably something like a very, a very Catholic virtue ethics and the set was very easygoing. I think that kind consequences matter, but it's not all of it. Surviving rational reflections matters, but it's not everything. At the I think the hardest one for me is meta ethics. I talked myself into every single position as I describe it. And so what I take away from that is, well, we still don't know what the nature is a moral judgments just yet. That's the sensible takeaway. But for now, I'll at the moment, somebody who is closer to virtue ethics than anything else, yeah, yes. Figure out? Yeah, it's not that you need to know, at all. So the question was, um, how do you ever know if you're virtuous or not? I think what a trait of a truly virtuous person is that they would probably always doubt that, you know, being convinced of one's own virtue. Well, that would be advice. Right?

Unknown Speaker  1:51:09  
Yes. They raised the environment. Then, like, that everyone's sort of raised differently. So there isn't really one right way, right? In one scenario, but some people think this is acceptable or not, it's thought

Unknown Speaker  1:51:36  
it could be like, like, no matter what you do with it be justified to some people being right to others is wrong.

Unknown Speaker  1:51:48  
So if having the right character traits and having the right emotional reactions to the right degree in the right situations at the right time in the right context is something that it depends essentially on us being raised well within, within a society of virtuous people that it has been your immediate family, they mean, within a culture within a stable culture. But different cultures have different beliefs about these things. Now, there's a lot of wiggle room here for the virtue ethicist. One thing they can say is one thing they can easily say, and I suspect this is what people might have just said in ancient Greece. Well, everyone else is just wrong. I suppose that's it. That's one answer. Right? The problem is, you're not going to have a lot of trouble convincing anyone else if that's the right answer, right? I think contemporary virtue ethicist have a more humble wiggle room. Along the lines of different societies have different types of people in them. You the type of person that you are, is just the, again, the the way that you behave and the beliefs that motivate and the desires that motivate those behaviors. So that's the sort of thing that's going to vary really dramatically from one culture to another. And it's very unlikely to be outside of some extraordinary examples, any kind of super cultural, attack taxonomy of virtues, or at least insofar as there is one, it will be realized concretely in different ways. And just the same way as there are different amounts of fear that are the right types of fear for a teacher to have, in one situation, as opposed to a soldier in another politician and a soldier, there is different cultures of people. Right, exactly the same way that, you know, at a different level of abstraction. People in Finland have a very different culture from people in Malaysia for that, you know, that's this isn't weird. That's not surprising at all. I think like a contemporary virtue ethics, will be able will be able to be able to accommodate that pretty pretty straightforwardly by saying the right thing to do in that situation at that time in that context, that can all be relativized. To culture, which is, but that's not the same as no truth of the matter. Right? Because the truth, the right and you can still be wrong within your own culture. You can still leave it you could still even be wrong. Super culturally, like if I've got some tiny groups of people who thinks that would have been great examples of Cogito just insanely wrong. It doesn't matter how many people believe it. Like for example, the Third Reich, there are millions and millions and millions of people it's not the Nazi Party were a fantastic idea. Millions of them 10s of millions of them all the way across Europe. I don't think there's any room in there for that. It's not it's not a numbers game. It's not just a majority wins kind of seeing like, Oh, if I've got enough people who think that this is the right way to act, it must be the right way. That's not a virtue. Ethics is saying this helping it all and making you more worried.

Unknown Speaker  1:55:08  
Gone, gone, then go away and think about it like a good philosopher. Yeah, I mean, what are the there's a ton of literature out there, there's more than kappa sticker. How, how to make cultural relativism in meta ethics coherent with contemporary versions of virtue ethics and normative ethics. But this is like rocketing into fairly difficult moral philosophy terrain, but all the literature is out there if you want to email me, I'm happy to send some papers your way.

Unknown Speaker  1:55:41  
Yeah, thank you.

Unknown Speaker  1:55:44  
Thanks, everyone.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
