Unknown Speaker  0:05  
Yes. Hi everyone. If somebody requests online stuff that makes words happen I'll set that up. You know what I mean? I know that you're not so bear with me, everyone online I'm just gonna set up the microphone everyone's running a bit late it's pouring with rain and gotta turn some lights on and everything so that we can all see with you in a

Unknown Speaker  0:31  
sec. Transmit transcription enable. So apparently, the audio pick up floors lecture was suboptimal. That's my fault. Right?

Unknown Speaker  1:25  
Ah, I am loud and annoying. Floor is not. So the default setting did not pick up flora. So for everyone apart from loud annoying people obviously not allowed annoying people as well. So we're gonna have two microphones here one here for when they're moving around and one over there as well. So when they're closer, you'll all be picked up and I'll even try and make sure that they're in phase right now.

Unknown Speaker  1:52  
Oh my God forgive me Ah, yes, please go for it changed something something. Whoa. It's been to drink more water. So I'll start with my favorite thing, which is a story I've had the most extraordinary morning.

Unknown Speaker  2:56  
And it's related or less, at least it's not unrelated to information technology and ethics. So I wanted to ask all of you your opinions on it. Is anyone here aware of the Optus data breach that has happened over the last 48 hours or longer or so? Well? Well, a lot of people right now in office, okay, are being yelled at in office. Okay. So for those of you who are going off to work in tech, right, I know we've spoken a lot privately about these sorts of things. We've talked about pressure and I said you know the pressure you will get for this standard University. It's nothing compared to what will happen to you and millions of dollars and a reputation are alive. And I promise you will be people who are often on $3 million a year losing their minds at you in a room so right now if you have any friends who are working in office, check in and see if they're okay because it probably not right now as a function of the data breach at Optus. There have been a lot of scams going around. So for example, a friend of mine got scammed is his mother's phone number got leaked from his details you often have an emergency contact a secondary contact when you sign up for stuff and it was his mother's phone and you key in relationship to you and Mother mother got this text message from an Amish doesn't recognize saying hey you know it's sad but you know it's Johnny says you're on there look I can't receive or make any calls at the moment my phone's gone kaput I'm in all sorts of financial trouble please I need to sort out some bills can you transfer some money you know to and it was really the sort of message that you might send your mom it was it was in like good like cunning, colloquial English. Anyway me thank goodness his mother rang up and said Johnny, I think you've been scammed raised moms, but lots of people's mothers wouldn't you know, they might just worry a bit. So anyhow, Oh, yesterday, I transferred some money overseas. I really did. And I thought, oh, you know, hunky dory and I went through all the two factor. Okay, hang on a second. Okay. Okay, one second. So people are wondering, can you hear me again? I just changed microphones. Somebody say yes. Or put a thumbs up in the chat.

Unknown Speaker  5:30  
If you can hear me online? Oh, oh, yeah. That is not how I say I haven't got shot.

Unknown Speaker  5:41  
Okay, thank you, everyone. All right, we're getting there, we're getting there leave an angle and properly, so it's pointing up at the sky a lot at the blackboard. So this morning, I tried to I get this message on my phone saying, Oh, your electronic banking has been blocked or frozen because of a suspicious activity, please contact us. And of course, I thought, Ah, yeah, right. I'm being scammed. Then I try and open my internet banking app. And sure enough, it's blocked. So okay. Now clearly, a and Zed had a lot of calls coming in, because I waited on hold for nearly 14 minutes to get through to the first person who for all intents and purposes sounded like I was speaking on a mobile phone outside in the rain and the wind, with roosters crowing in the background or something. And this does happen, you get a lot of outsourcing. One guy wearing a GoPro is like at home in Manila. He's like, Oh, hey, how's it going on here? Like, where are you? And it's like, oh, I don't know, it's a different company every day. I'm just the cold guy here. So I speak to her for a long time. She puts me through to what's known as the Falcon team. And I speak to Jimmy at Falcon, who is an Zeds fraud detection team. And he said, Did you make this purchase? I'll make it Yes. Yes, I did. You sent me the double factor thing to my phone, et cetera, et cetera. And you would have seen a lot of if you've been reading the media recently, a lot of people who've been scanned have been saying, Oh, it's the bank's fault. You know, I got this random phone call. Right? So false responsibility, ethics, moral culpability. I got this random phone call from Australia who said that they could double my return on my superannuation. And I thought, Oh, what a great idea. And I send them 200 grand, and why didn't the bank stop me doing this sort of thing. I didn't send 200 grand I was not much money at all. But it was enough for the bank, because it was a new pay. I had to the key knew there wasn't someone to whom I sent money before. The bank froze everything. So I'm speaking to Jimmy. I'm having a yes, please release that will release the money. And then Jim asked me this question that left me stunned. He said, Oh, what's it for? And I said, What's what for? And he said all the money? I said, presumably, that would be none of your business. And he said, Oh, well, it is if you're using our services. I said, so let me get this straight. But let me get this straight. Now I have to tell you what it is that I'm spending my money on. And only if you think I should be spending my money on that, will you let me spend my own money that I've invested with you? And you said, look, the problem of the trouble we're in is that a lot of people are being scammed. And they don't know that we're being scammed. And I get this from the bank's point of view. They're in massive damage control now, because the media narrative is like, well, somebody think of the children, why won't the banks do something about stupid people sending a quarter of a million dollars to complete strangers who told them on the phone, right? And I said, you know, I do understand this, I get it. But if you think there's anything untoward that I might be doing, you should ring triple zero and ring the police reported to them. Right? I was more concerned that now there might be this slow mission creep into having to tell the banks now this is the big fear from conspiracy theorists, once they make their money go electronic, and there's no cash anymore. It won't be your money anymore. And I'd always laugh at these people until this morning. Now I have some guy called Ginny is probably a crow's nest or something, saying so what's it for bro? Like, none of your business is what the money is for Jimmy? None of your business. Now, so eventually I said I know this guy because I don't care if I'm being scammed, right? I absolve you but you got this on recording absolved of all responsibility. It's my money just sort of set send it through. Because I'm paranoid. What if the personal lines been faking? someone else in this a different bank account. But at this point, I thought, Hey, I just wanted to get off the phone

Unknown Speaker  10:03  
with Jimmy. But what what do you think? Morally? Now this let's not make this isn't something I made up this for who where's my joke?

Unknown Speaker  10:14  
Just to get a Scotland this morning. I mean, there's a real, there's a real problem ahead there's on the one hand, there seems to be a narrative are strong that the banks are somehow responsible for not noticing that we're doing extraordinary things with large sums of money. So this isn't a large, this is not a large sum of money at all. I mean, it is a lot, lot, lot, lot less than you would spend on anything that cost any money like a large television would cost more than this. These days, a computer would cost a lot more than like a laptop wasn't that much. But what do you think? What worries you do think, to people online, and and here as well. When it comes to the morality of the situation, and the banks are in a bad position reputational here, people started getting scammed and that frightened center, even if it's not actually their fault, by by any reasonable standards once once the mob is whipped up, then all that matters is the optics, because your reputation is your optics. It's what other people think of you. And that's a commodity that can be, you know, your your future. And I did say that Jimmy on the panel said, Look, I realized that this is not your fault. And I realized that this is not your decision. And almost certainly you have absolutely no option to use your discretion here. And over the last 24 hours, there's been some new directive from top down that you have to ask everyone what the money is for? And he said you put it in his gift? I said, Yes, of course. He said everyone puts it into Skiptrace. Possible put it in his gear because it's none of the bank's business for what we're using the money. But who who thinks that maybe it is maybe I've got this wrong? Like should if because here's the thing, if he asked me what's what the money is for it, suppose it's more money. And I say, Oh, well, you see, this great team of accountants rang me, they were really friendly, helpful people. And they said that if I transfer my superannuation access from uni super over to them, I mean, I'll get 7% compounded interest until I retire, and then I'll retire with 11 and a half million dollars. And then of course, Jimmy is going to say, look, with all due respect. That is not true. You've been scammed. Nothing like this is ever true. We've got a record of another 300 People who received the same protocol and the last one, so you can see what they're trying to do here. But in order to try and mitigate the risk, they do need to overstep what has traditionally been a boundary that is you go to the cash machine, and you don't have to tell the cash machine and what you're spending the money and ask its permission to spend your own money that you've sold in the bank. So now this isn't the sort of ethical situation that's going to reduce very quickly to slogans, this is actually difficult. I'm not quite sure what I think about it. What you will think about it, like who you are, or how much of you could end up working one of your tutors works for the Commonwealth Bank. I mean, you could just insecurity in bank security, you could end up doing this. What does anyone but yeah.

Unknown Speaker  13:24  
See ya, consequential deployment the same way the consequences are gonna extend. However, the bigger consequences that we go out.

Unknown Speaker  13:39  
Right. Yeah, so this is for all of the people online. I'm just repeat that like we do. We do have a right to privacy. Leaving aside whether rights and natural things that we discovered like apples, or whether they're conventions, that was not an interesting debate, you're something could be a social construct and the convention and still be very real, right? The New South Wales Police Force is a social construct. It's a social convention, find your nearest police officer and try and tell them that you don't have to do what they say because they're just a social construct. Right? And let me know how that goes. Okay. So something can be a social construct, or a convention, therefore, not a natural kind, but still extremely real and existed and able to exert all sorts of causal power rights might be one of those things. So then for the people watching online, the issue was a loan from the bank's point of view. They're trying to protect their reputation also protects the immediate risks of fraud. If we think and perhaps we think in a slightly longer term, all I need to

Unknown Speaker  14:47  
do is going to say no, no, that's why I'm speaking.

Unknown Speaker  14:53  
I'm going to trouble Oh, there we go. Sorry, everyone. Look Big me now. Okay. Um, And then we might end up causing more harm than we're trying to mitigate. Because if people no longer have trust or confidence in banks to give them the money when they want it, what are they going to? Do? We know what they're going to do. They're going to everyone's going to run to the bank and try and get their money out as quickly as possible. Like what? That's big. How do we know that? Because that's exactly what has happened everywhere on God's good earth. Every time this has happened before. That's not so weird. Tom,

Unknown Speaker  15:30  
online, wouldn't it be more responsible to simply just ask the customer? Please confirm the transaction? You're partaking in it not a scam?

Unknown Speaker  15:39  
Yeah, I think I'm verbally that's a really good question, Henry. I think it was it. Yeah, I basically had to say, I know this guy. But then I realized, although I know the guy, I don't really know that it was him that I was speaking to online. But all I know, someone has taken over their account and has substituted another, you know, but the bank that I was putting it into is HSBC, and I have another account with them and HSBC. You know, all the English banks got in trouble because of apartheid now, and there are all these rules about money laundering and English banks. And you could get your you can get your money back pretty quick, especially at HSBC a good if anyone wants international banking, HSBC and fantastic. They're really pedantic about security and stuff. You spend money to shop, you never said it before. And they bring you up internationally as it was that year. And they got Okay, great. And they unblock stuff. They're really, really paranoid.

Unknown Speaker  16:29  
Because reputation is everything.

Unknown Speaker  16:33  
For hardly sounds like there are potential legal liabilities, because then if someone gets confused and thinks something is a scam, because of the bank, that company can sue the bank and defamation Yep, absolutely. I mean, it's very, in the age of people moving around the planet and doing stuff remotely. It's very difficult to to know whether or not with a degree of certainty that something is a scam. So here's an idea. Who's heard of PayPal? Right? Wow, we know how PayPal works. You give your money to PayPal, Pay Pal, give the money to the third party. If the third party is sneaky, then PayPal return your money. And that's the risk that PayPal take like, now, here's an idea. The banks, right work with me here could implement a payment procedure, not entirely, unlike paper towels. And then they could just shut up about it. Right, because they'd have this procedure in place. They already know how to fix the issue. By Pay Pal. I've done it. I just I suspect if you were trying to use PayPal to send billions of dollars overseas, they just don't know, what are you doing? We're not going to be liable for for this much money. But the idea that the tech is in place, the idea that the tech is not in place that would mitigate having to speak to Jimmy from Falcon in crow's nest at 630. In the morning or something, actually, that's more labor intensive, then then then, I don't know paying people from PayPal to come over and show you how they did it. But it's a real it's a it's a it's a real ethical issue. And it has absolutely ruined my morning. Okay, so that's gonna ruin some of yours too. Okay, good. Well, that was a good, good, good. No new issues there any silence? Okay, everybody got a Knology has the risk of introducing more security vulnerabilities. Yeah. I suppose that that is true, smart people like yourselves can work on it. However, like a one? Well, yes.

Unknown Speaker  18:38  
I think someone else takes a transaction will likely be someone who's on board. Like, I was one of the parts of my account that I didn't know. And they just pay me back. But if you authorize the transaction you didn't make the transaction?

Unknown Speaker  19:03  
Yeah, I think now that I've confirmed it was me. And then the danger is if whoever it is to whom I transfer this money, just takes the money and runs whoever's responsibility that is, it's, it's not the banks, you know, and that's, that seems fair. In the same way that if I withdraw the money from a cash machine, and then I go to see Tom on a street corner, and they Tom, his $10,000 for you know, the thing, the blueprints whatever it is, and then Tom goes, Wait here, I'll be right back. Like most people you give anyone $10,000 and as expected never see the money again. Then I don't think it's within my right to return to the bank. say look, I gave this money to this guy on the street corner and he took it can I have it back from you? So I do I do. I do. I do see that that, that that that kind of situation being being a real concern, but the the amount of money was so small, the amount of money that the bank would have spent, during all of this this morning was greater than the amount of money about which we were talking, we need to talk about the amount of everyone's time that I took off and the amount of my time was taken up. It was just when he asked me, What's it for? That's what I thought, this is weird now, right? This is this is like my mom saying, What are you spending this money on? It was a bit much anyway. Okay, now, who has had a chance to read this week's readings? One, two and a half people go don't let a lot of past. Okay. Through I think, here's the way so what you've had so far as the following, you have had some readings from textbooks. These are readings that are designed for students. Then you've had the readings that Flora has put forward. And those readings are designed for members of the general public. The readings that you have for week four, on the uselessness of AI ethics and from ethics, Washington, ethics bashing, are neither intended for students directly, nor are they intended for members of the general public. What they are a professional pieces of research literature written by one researcher and delivered to the community of researchers within which the author moves. So you will have noticed that the level of delivery is that slightly more pointy at the pointy end. The way I would recommend to everyone that you read these papers, which is the way I recommend that you read, all and any heavy duty bits of academic writing, is you read through them really quickly, without thinking about it. Just make the words in your brain as you go past. And every time you think you're going past something important, just mark it on the site, you don't need to understand it, just move through and leave little breadcrumbs as you go along. This is what I do when I'm reading new papers, if I'm downloading a whole bunch of heart, right, then goes through a second time and read those bits that you've marked up now start reading it properly, and trying to understand and hopefully got it right the first time, you won't need to read the other bits, because papers have a lot of waffle in the majors trying to get the gold from the from from the Goldfields, so to speak.

Unknown Speaker  22:38  
And you might find you need to read around the edges of the bits that you mark. And so I'm gonna try and grasp each bit. But here's the trick, not remember it as you go along. So you know, when you play chess, and you understand each move, but you forget where you started, and your brain unravels, and you have to go back and you have to start again. Don't worry about keeping track of everything for the second read through this trial, understand each thing as you go past, even if you're not quite grasping how they're connected, or what on earth happened three pages before. Now you're just trying to really understand as you go through. And again, it's a pretty quick process, right? Then the third reading, I'm very quick. I mean, spend 25 minutes on each paper writes in less than an hour for both for both readings, okay? Then the third time, it's for real, then you want to start making notes, and really putting it in your own words, so that you have a blueprint to go back to instead of having to read the whole paper again, hopefully you just read your notes. I always use Mind Maps. So here I bought examples today. Here are my notes for the first paper in their entirety. Right. Here are my notes for the first paper. This is how I do it. Here are my notes, you'll notice the second paper is more involved. Right, these are my notes for the second paper. That is literally how I do it. It is probably how you should do it too. Don't sit there and start writing popping whole sentences down page after page after page. I promise you having done that for three or four years, you will never read them back. As long as you live. That's clearing on my mother's house I found a block of leftover boxes and boxes of boxes of all of my old notepads that I'd fill with philosophy notes. Never read a single word of any of them don't even remember writing. It's just mad panic as lecturers are talking and I'm reading things. Okay. So now do this in front of you. What was Luke Manon about? Luke mon is very clever and Lucas here is Sydney, Luke. Luke Minh is saying that AI ethics is useless. Now is Luke talking about what we've been doing in this course so far? Not quite. What mon is talking about out is the practice of ethics in technology circles. And he has I'm not going to say exactly what this means for the first half of this day. He has three large concerns with what he calls AI ethics and you mean something very particular that he thinks firstly, that the AI ethics principles are meaningless. So this is his first concern that the AI ethics principles meaningless. That's the first one. His second concern is that the AI ethics principles are isolated

Unknown Speaker  25:50  
like us are quite small property that will be

Unknown Speaker  25:52  
his third concern is that the AI ethics principles are Toothless. Meaningless, isolated and toothless. It's like a medieval insult, isn't it? May you be meaningless, isolated and toothless and a plague upon your house? I'd throw my thing at your pizza, you know, something like that bit Monty Python. Now, we're going to move through each of these one at a time. Angle the microphone slightly. And see what it is that means no uncertain terms, like sustainable and justice all for that matter. Good. Now, here's where you need to be really, really careful. When mom says that his concern is that the principles in AI ethics are meaningless, because the key terms involved in these principles are meaningless. He's making a mistake. Right? This is an error in the paper. He is misusing the term meaningless. Meaningless means without semantic content, or entirely, ungraspable. I'll give you an example of something that is about as close to meaningless as I can manage. in English. Here we go. Down goes the right heart and a to put object beside it's false. Does anyone know where that's wrong? Anyone at all? Down goes the right heart and a to put object beside it's false. Now, so like everyone can have a different idea of what that means. You're just sitting there going, what the hell you want about that's meaninglessness. It's an extra pneus. Right? Or a term that is invented that has no location in any existent language. Like for torch? Does anyone know where for torches from? Gosh, well go find Down goes the right heart later put object inside source and find the torch. The first person to email me with the answers gets. I don't know, my respect and adoration. Okay, so a few on line. Am I missing anything? Okay. When man is saying that these terms are meaningless, that's a he doesn't mean meaningless in this really strict sense, right? Instead, what he means if it's something more like unlimited or homonyms

Unknown Speaker  29:06  
knows what a Hominem is. Anyone, any linguists in the room? Okay. Exactly that two words sound exactly the same. They're often spelled exactly the same, but had different meanings. So earlier, when at the beginning of this lecture, I was talking about a bank. And my bank, I meant a place where one puts money has to make annoying phone calls at 6:30am. What I don't mean is the thing on the side of the river that marks the different the edge of the river and the edge of the land, namely a river bank. So there are two completely distinct versions of the word bank. They are typographically identical. They're spelled exactly the same way. They're pronounced in exactly the same way, but they mean completely different things. mom's actual concern, this is really important, his actual pins just wrong about the way he's using meaningless. This hidden is not really that terms like sustainability and justice are meaningless. But rather, they can mean a whole bunch of things to different people think of as I said, here's an example just the term good. Now, if I say to you, Well, what I want to do is to create a good society. Now, surely, no one would disagree with that. I mean, if I said, Look, I've got this really good idea for a people's movement and a revolution. And we're gonna make the whole goal is to make everything really crap. Right? You think it might be good performance on but you perhaps might not be ready to dedicate a lot of money and time and energy to the cause, whatever it might be. So of course, you say, you know, you want to create the good life for everybody. But of course, in case you haven't noticed, what people mean, by the good life, or the morally, just life can vary pretty radically from one person to another, even within a single culture, let alone the let alone from one culture to another, or heaven forbid, in any cultural place, or place, or, you know, at time t versus time 25 years ago, or something like this. The tricky part comes down to agreeing on what the details might be, for, say, the good life, or the good, you know, does the good mean that we have marriage equality? Or does the good it mean that only heterosexual couples should be able to get married? Does the good mean that women should be able to play a role in civic life? Heaven forbid? Or does the good life mean that women should be removed entirely from civic life? Does the good mean that everyone has a right to education? Or does the good mean that only certain people, namely, citizens have a right to education and citizenship instead of being a right that everybody enjoys is instead a privilege that is either earned or conferred upon one as a function of their birth? There are plenty of places on this planet right now, where if you are born into the right family, you enjoy a huge amount of power. And if you are not, you are basically scrabbling around the desert for pieces of glass, right? And you're illiterate, and half the planets pretty much. So what people mean by the good varies radically. what people mean by sustainable varies radically and most concern. And this is not without some warrant is that when tech companies write or enact principles of AI ethics, when they use terms like sustainable injustice, that these terms are very deliberately, retroactively gerrymandered, that means twiddled, so that they manifest the very same interests as as are shared by the corporate entities who put forward these ethical principles in the first place. So when he's talking about AI ethics, he's talking about corporate statements about moral behavior in the space of machine learning and AI development. That's the space to which he's referring. And when he says that they're meaningless, again, doesn't mean that they're actually without meaning. He just thinks that, that

Unknown Speaker  34:08  
there are two dangers. One is that a company might just go shopping, for any for any organization or for any group of people who wants to, but who want to put forward a bunch of ethical statements, they can just go shopping for whichever ones happen to suit their interests, as opposed to whichever ones will actually constrain their behavior for the instead of interest in others, which is what same moral philosophy might be interested in. But we'll get to that after the break on time. Is it a very good he's less concerned though, with this ethics chopping threat and it is a real one, like there are so many ethical principles and programs out there, like the number of light lunches where people would have just said, Look, we need some ethical statement on our website. What are we going to put there like, I don't know, let's Google around. What's this company got? What's that company got? Okay, these all look good. Let's just copy and paste a whole bunch, we'll put them up online, do a big song and dance about an animal get the social justice warriors off our back. And then we'll go back to investing in landmines or something like that, or making weapons tech for like, shooting at refugees from space. And suddenly, when there's something terrible that a lot of a lot of gay car companies make terrible, terrible, terrible technology, you just don't know their names like God, the things that people make. When we're going to look at some new machine learning technology and spaces, where it's creeping, that might give us reasons to exercise a great amount of caution just in due course later in this in this lecture. He thinks of worse than that, well, you can just define these terms to me whatever you want them to mean. You can say yes, this is, this is promoting sustainability. But sustainability of what says, sustainability of profits for the shareholders, sustainability of research and development, sustainability of the environment, which part you know, now find you. Finally, after years and years of crypto bros telling everyone that the future is crypto and cash and the banks are dead. Everyone's noticing just how much energy is needed to keep crypto mines cool. And the amount of the amount the the amount of damage the environment that this sort of energy will cause? Who's heard of quantum computing? Amazing. Now, one of my best friends is Bob coca. Coca is the CEO of Cambridge, quantum. He was also the first professor of quantum foundations at the University of Oxford. He knows what he's talking about. Like a good friend of his Ross, who also works for Cambridge, quantum put an advertisement online for jobs as fantastic pen, I'll find this ad if it's still up, and it says, Hey, do you think possible who thinks that quantum computers are great? Who sees a cup? Does anyone think they're great? You can tell us like a trick question. In the side, Ross says, who thinks quantum computers are great, then right? Then he writes, they're not their shit. If you'd like to make them less shit, then come and work with us. Because we, you know, whoever gets it first is going to make like, make like a lot of money. I forget what the actual figure was. But I think it was something like 32 seconds of quantum computation cost $16 million in cooling or something. And that wasn't even at full crank. You know, so just before we get terribly carried away about flicking on quantum computers, I mean, if you if you can chase people down the street yelling at them, because they're using a plastic straw, right, you can chase people down the street and yell at them because they want to get into quantum computing is the same issue. But it could but no, but quantum computing is cool that maybe it is it's awesome. But at least people like Cambridge quantum have been really forward about the amount of cost environmentally ipso facto morally that the industry entails. And it's one of the things that they're trying to fix before they go to. That's one of the things I tried to do is optimize, optimize the day. So this is the concern about meaninglessness. It's not meaninglessness, strictly speaking, as I said, it's just about being able to define these terms in the interest of the people who are putting them forward. And as my colleague, Richard Buckland is fond of saying, never bet against a horse called self interest, not even once. Now, before we move from meaninglessness over to the concern about isolation, are there any questions about meaninglessness, and anything that about which we just told?

Unknown Speaker  39:06  
Can we get the spelling? That's a long phrase that you said, Whoa, oops. Look, I'm not very good at spelling at the best of times, especially not in front of hundreds of people, but I'll give it my best shot. Oh, for too much. I have no idea how to spell it. I've only heard it for tombs. No one knows your responses, or dongles, right Haneda prolific is how to source Alright. Is anyone found it yet? Does anyone know not Monty Python but well, you're close. Not not Monty Python. No, but good bet who said that? Gods. Teradata. No, not quite there any apart from how to spell the tubes. Are there any other questions? That's the tip an extra mark if you can still fit Okay, Okay, all to isolate it. Now. Here's where you need to move a little bit carefully through the paper a lot, in case you haven't noticed, a lot of academic writing in English is very western centric. It happens, very often written by people who are Westerners about a culture that is in the West. And we have a way, bless us of extrapolating these observations such that they will then appear to be a global and to reach across the entire planet. So, mine is very concerned here with behavior in the tech industry. He is talking about behavior in the tech industry nearly exclusively in the northwestern coast of the United States of America. The tech industry, I hate to break this to Silicon Valley is a lot bigger than this. It spans right around the globe. And the behavior of people, one part of the planet is very different than the behavior of people in other parts of the planet, even if they both happen to be working for a tech startup, right? The horrible behavior to which he alludes is very real, and very horrible. But it is far from obvious that it is a problem, say in a tech company in, for example, Singapore. Now maybe it is, maybe it's not, I don't know. But the mere fact that Uber and the all these other companies in the north, the north coast of California, had all these issues of terrible, terrible behavior. I don't think that's sufficient to then extrapolate all around the planet and just talk about the tech industry in a global sort of in a global way in the way that man does in in this paper. Maybe he's right, but if he is right, it's not always and he certainly does not put forward any argument that this in the paper, and remember an interview, you don't have to agree with anything month, or bat you're saying. Remember what I've been saying about your own essays. And one of the most important things that we're doing here is learning how to give reasons for our claims. Those reasons that we give are just as if not more important than the claims themselves. Even if your claim is true, if it was a lucky guess, doesn't matter. It's the reasons that matter why, because the good reasons are what makes a success repeatable, because it's the methodology that matters, as opposed to having to look under the right rock for the thing that was worth a lot of money or something. Now. Nonetheless, he's right. The moral statements that are emerging from technology companies in front of principles of, of AI and AI must be relevant to us all trying to do the three laws of robotics, it sounds like Asimov and all these. None of these are emerging in a space where there is already an existent moral discussion. They're emerging in a space where for the most part, there's an r&d emphasis. And there's an impetus to create capital. And there's an emphasis to be the first person to achieve a particular result. And very often, the the statements in question, the listening question are after thoughts, rather than something that emerges from a serious and sustained reflective discussion about the nature of morality and the challenges that our

Unknown Speaker  44:08  
processes of ethical reasoning might might face in the face of precedent advances in machine learning and artificial intelligence and so on. Now, to this extent, he is absolutely right. I think he's spot on. Now, one of the issues one of the who, who knows what he said about morality in tech education, who read that far into man's paper, they did a survey of Yes. What did he say?

Unknown Speaker  44:37  
They don't just tack it on at the end of

Unknown Speaker  44:41  
the program. Yeah, absolutely. So to open it. He said one thing we found is often ethics components, if they exist, are tacked on to the end of a unit of study what we call a class here, but everyone else calls a unit of study. Right? Oh, Uh, all to the end of the degree. So that's easy to fix. We'll just move this course into second year. Problem solved. Maybe I will, but might not be in. May, maybe I will. So I think that if you if you're interested in chasing, this will be a perfect example of where if you're interested in chasing up the essay question here, right? This discussion of moms who is talking about the survey of ethics courses in computer and engineering departments in Australia, you absolutely should not take months work for it, you should go and look up that reference, go and find that study and read it yourself. This is like an absolutely fantastic exam. I've had a lot of messages about this on Ed, like, when do we need to chase sources up and these sorts of things? Well, if it's cannon, you probably don't need to. But who cares when Kent was born, who is something like this, you don't want to take man's word for it or anyone's word for it, you need to go to the primary source, they're talking about empirical results, you want to go and check that paper for yourself, be a whole 40 minutes out of your day to find it and give it a quick, quick read through. And then you can put it in the bibliography and like a great researcher, and so on. So the concern about isolation is very real. Even if the, the the extrapolation of Silicon Valley tech culture as as representative of tech culture across every culture and country on the planet, I think is completely bonkers for you. You couldn't you couldn't start with Silicon Valley, and extrapolate across the entire planet any more than you could start with one jaw and then extrapolate across the entire planet. It's a major sort of Western chauvinism there in the paper, and I thought it was it was unnecessary. And if I speak to that, they'll bring it up with it. It was weird that to occur in a paper that was otherwise so sensitive. Now, the third concern is tooth lessness. For those of you who's read the paper, who knows what man means about Toothless hands here? What What What's he getting at? Yes. The moral principles of AI. Yeah, that's the response for those alive if somebody really shows Eskelsen earliest, well, the science faculty, well, good for them. So the response for those of you online was that there is no way for the ethics boards or the ethicist at large in the company to enforce any of the codes? That's absolutely right. Absolutely. That's right. I think I forget which one it is, it might be. It's one of its might be Google's ethicist in residence. It's one of the essence who is part of the conduct is that they're banned from speaking publicly, at all, it's entirely and in house thing, in case you haven't noticed, institutions with a vested interest and self interest, are not always fantastic at policing and reforming their own bad practice. Right, that now that is as true of our own families as it is of Google in the Catholic Church, right? It doesn't matter who, who it is. It's just the nature of institutionalization. Often our first thought is, oh, my God, how can we stop anyone finding out about this? That's the first thing and then you think, okay, now now, how do we fix it? But often, the first thought is, is what do we do to protect reputations, and this and that, that might not always be malevolent when that thought first appears? And you might think, Well, I'm here, and I think I'm here at UNSW. I'm representing the University in the public space and everything. Okay, well, if I speak out, honestly, obviously, that's going to harm the reputation of the university, and that will harm all of my students. And I really don't want to harm my students or especially harm future students. I mean, that blindness so now let's write a lot of people and make them sign nondisclosure agreements and everything and then get them out of here as quickly as possible. And we'll always never speak about it again. And that's how it happens. Right in any institution around the world. And tech companies are no exception.

Unknown Speaker  49:33  
The issue here is that unlike a university that has more layers of oversight and so on, just ask my full on a student is trying to get through the Ethics Committee of members. The private companies are to a large extent internally a law unto themselves and they can have their ethics board say Hey, you, we shouldn't be saying developing this product at all, let alone just trying to tweak the algorithm. This entire thing is wrongheaded from the start. They have no power to stop the company. I mean, unless that company is breaking the law. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  50:19  
This is a question here, which greatly

Unknown Speaker  50:22  
basic basically

Unknown Speaker  50:23  
expanding? Isn't it just true that all ethical codes aren't necessarily enforced? And that's the reason why laws and ethics different. So like, I guess, what's one's complaint?

Unknown Speaker  50:31  
Ah, Mother man's complaint is that the, the ethical principles that are put forward by the companies are a form of window dressing. And if they were serious about it, they would enable internally as part of their governing corporate structure, the ability of the ethics boards to exercise actual oversight, and interruptions into the behavior of the company, as opposed to just saying, well, here's what we recommend. Board of investors, as you were, who has all that everyone looked this up themselves to give themselves nightmares, right? Firstly, has anyone here online of facial recognition technology? Once or twice, right? There is a company in America, and I'm not making this up, who are busy refining and perfecting what they are claiming proudly to be a facial recognition platform that will predict a person's sexuality at a greater rate of success than any human. And they say now, of course, the important thing is that this technology really works and that we don't start making false predictions. And I like to think that perhaps the important thing is that we knew the factory from all that. I mean, why on earth, would anyone develop this technology, the fact that it might be making false predictions like the worry about AI and say, sentencing laws and recidivism, it's like, oh, maybe it gets it wrong, or it's no better than a person or something. They have nothing to hook if it gets it wrong. It's terrible. If it gets it, right, it's terrible. What? What possible good news, could this technology ever be put to AI? You know, just think about it for more than five seconds. It's like saying, I've got this great facial recognition tech, like algorithm, and it protects Jews. I mean, is anyone able to vague cursory familiarity with the persecution that queer communities around the planet have undergone for 10s of 1000s? If not longer than years before that? Maybe we shouldn't be making this at all. Maybe this tip, like, the only right response from an ethics board? If there is one, I can't imagine that there is one in this company would be, we need to shut this down. We need to set fire to all of our records. And we need to go straight to the UN or something and ban this like we ban landmines because it's completely insane. There is absolutely none. The argument for them is is this they say? Well, everyone's working on this. Now, I'm not convinced that's true. Right? I'm not convinced that there are too many people working on this. And we've got to get there before bad actors do. But that presumes that there's some good actor use case for the queer person detector technology. And that good person use case frankly, is eluding me. Pretty pretty strongly. Right? So when he says tooth lessness. I mean, imagine if you're on the ethics board of that he said, okay, and that because that's one of the only things that can make it okay, but here's the here's what I recommend, right? We shut down the company completely. And we destroy all of our workout records, and we all walk away. And none of us ever continue with this research again. Like I said, never bet against a horse called self interest. I can't imagine that the company would do that. This is an extreme case, right? At least it's supposed to be an extreme case. I'm hoping that all of you online and entity I hope there's not anyone sitting there going hmm, if only we had a facial recognition technology definitely helped me detect queer people in my environment was g that will be so useful, especially if teenagers got hold of it at schools. I'm in an A be like, it'd be a happiness and rainbows as well. IRC I could see,

Unknown Speaker  55:02  
that was sarcasm, people assume that you know, every now and again. This is like I just said, supposed to be a terribly obvious case, there are less obvious ones, where if we think about it a bit more carefully, instead of tweaking the algorithm, we might want to immediately ban the use of anything like machine learning algorithms in that area, whatsoever. But that's after, after the after the break when we come back, and we start discussing electric big is absolutely fantastic paper, from an ethics washing to ethics bashing, before we go on a break. Are there any questions from anyone here online? And then you're released? Yes, there

Unknown Speaker  55:53  
was basically a point on my end, it was like, there is actually a reason why I've had people argue this to me as well, that technology like what they're suggesting, should exist.

Unknown Speaker  56:02  
Really, yeah. It should exist. Can Help straight people find partners to date rather than guessing their sexuality. But what I can sit down on is mental imagery. I've got my phone. And I'm, and I'm at a bar. And I do this. Now, any of you do this, I think you'd be you could, you could have one like that, who were the people who were like, super not gay, it doesn't matter who you know, who the people are into like A, B, or C or whatever. And you think even if it doesn't care, and then you come up with this person says, look, the algorithm says that you should totally come home with me. I'm not sure I want to live in a world where that sort of behavior is acceptable. Because there's something about it. I can't quite put my finger on this. This strikes me as a little bit weird. Okay, so.

Unknown Speaker  57:17  
So right now as well, does that actually happen? But no, yeah, there's no words. It's about like now rather than tell them what to do today. Oh, God.

Unknown Speaker  57:24  
I mean, I guess it is. Can't you just state the sexuality on dating apps that way avoid assuming the person's sexuality? Yeah, I think I'm, I'm sure you can, but there might be more to somebody's sexuality, their attraction to another person. Like, okay, you Okay, that's it went together? Like what? That doesn't make any sense. Is, that's how I know someone who tried. It didn't want to say yes, but you're also insane to go away? Who said they were well, where, where that was all in maybe if you were born in a world where that was always the case, then you wouldn't feel weird about it. It's just that we are living in a world like that. Are we talking about something different? So we feel weird? Perhaps that's the idea. Really, I think you're absolutely right. I think this is true. I think a lot of behavioral norms. They are, they are conventions. They strike us as as strange, just because they're the outline case. You know, you know, the sort the sorts of their conventions that Oh, what a slightly PC version to some of my friends who don't, don't say that other. You know, there's, there's a convention that you don't smear yourself with peanut butter, and start rolling around in on top of the board table at a faculty meeting. Now, it's just a convention. If we always been doing that, we wouldn't think it's all that weird. Now, this is true. But give it a try. And let me know how it works. That's that's kind of what I'm saying. Yeah. And I think there's some others, there's also the case along there's also the sort of state of mind there's a response of, for sure. These are all sorts of conventions. And they're just social constructs, right? We make them up and often my response to these things like yes, yes, I make these up and I'm not going to make this one up because I don't want to live in a world where there's technology around where people can grab their phone and go look, there's one gentleman you know, it's already teenagers are already horrible enough to each other because somebody's got like the wrong brand of shoes or the wrong haircut. That will still get you chased over. You can imagine if it turned up gotta be like Pokemon bashing or something. It just be terrible. To think of nothing what would actually go on encounter smell different groups of people are persecuted because we feel you know, we'll have some nuts, saying, oh, you know, you know our apple pick up people who don't really love America. Oh, the Apple pick up people who don't really believe in Jesus, our apple pick up people who, you know, actually spies for Israel or something like that because they've got the eyes you know this this sort of crazy crazy sort of thing. And you'll have good people, people do stupid crazy things all the time. We love doing stupid crazy things. And if we can say it wasn't our fault, because the upholders to more fun to us. Yes,

Unknown Speaker  1:00:34  
I just want to add, there's a great book, which might convince you that everything Sam is saying is not quite right. It's called the circle. It's a fiction book. And the end, the ending is said that actually, right. But for the first half, you're more and more like, actually, this sounds like it'd be great. That's a really good idea. Maybe we should have this technology, like, let's just see what everyone's doing and figure out who's gay and who's not. And then the moral level isn't, that's a bad idea. But like, if you start really partway through, you probably get this extra rating,

Unknown Speaker  1:01:00  
or maybe a waiver when that's, that was called the circle. For those online. I want to type that in

Unknown Speaker  1:01:06  
the chat. movie as well. Cool.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:10  
Yeah, so the takeaway before the break is like, yes, a lot of things are just conventions, but the institutional conservative immune like at that convention has been around for 1000s of years, think really carefully before you go, it's just a convention that's changing. Be really, really, really careful before. Before you do that, try and find somewhere else that's done at some conventions don't matter at all. Right? Because you can look around the planet and save money in places that don't follow them and everyone's okay. Others others or others are pretty important like this, this idea that you shouldn't kill people steal things. Most cultures have a convention a little bit like that. You shouldn't go around killing people and you shouldn't go around stealing things. That's That's it, they're, they're pretty good ones. You know, other ones, like, I don't know, people shouldn't wear this color on this certain day or something. Because otherwise the sky will falls I mean, that's lots of fun, but nothing bad is going to happen if you don't follow it except friends were lucky or something. Okay, now, social pressure that's how you know that's how you know your group's beliefs are nuts if if you get shunned by the group for not following them that's when you know your your group's crazy and you need to leave in a hurry. Because that's the only reason they can get people to follow the conventions by saying if you don't do this, none of us will ever speak to you again. You should run run run right away right now today like run away if you're a member of any group like that, like the devil himself is behind you. It's going to go to get harder the older you get. All right. Five plus three are super sick let's come back at like just before a quarter past if you wouldn't mind have a proper 10 minute break and stretch your legs. Grab a sip of water or chocolate or ring Jimmy and and said 1000 and tell him I didn't appreciate the same conversation I had at 7am or whenever it was it's not

Unknown Speaker  1:03:25  
I wouldn't be here a baby Yes.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
